const posters=[{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "3D and Stereo Vision", "Title": "Hardware and software for a binocular multifocal display system", "Author": "Tarek A Haila", "CoAuthors": "Thomas S. A. Wallis", "Authors": [{"name":"Tarek A Haila","aff":[1]},{"name":"Thomas S. A. Wallis","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["TU Darmstadt (DE)"], "Abstract": "We introduce a variant of a multifocal display system that can be used monocularly and binocularly. The system has a Wheatstone stereoscope design and uses beamsplitters and first-surface mirrors to offer three physical depths at 2.5, 1.89, and 1.3 diopters. Light is provided by two commercial OLED monitors with native resolutions of 2560x1440px at 120 Hz, yielding resolutions of (30.3, 29.1), (40.2, 38.8), and (56.9, 55.1) pixels per degree at each depth plane horizontally and vertically, respectively. CAD drawings and component sources will be provided for the system.\\n\\n\\n\\n\\nOur Python software package multifocal offers a user-friendly API to interface the system with popular stimulus presentation libraries such as PsychoPy. Basic drawing is handled in a 3D coordinate system, allowing the user to specify where in the virtual volume a stimulus should be drawn multifocal then internally determines what should be drawn where on the physical monitor. We additionally implement depth-filtering techniques to blend light between two physical planes, which previous work has shown drives accommodation to intermediate depths. In addition, multifocal offers routines for photometric and geometric calibration. The photometric calibration allows color and luminance matching across the system's different planes using lookup tables and color correction models. The geometric calibration allows precise alignment of the drawing volume. For the binocular setup, it allows correct interpupillary and vergence calibration to enable correct image fusion.\\n\\n\\n\\n\\nThe system's luminance range depends strongly on the selection of the optical elements, the deployed display, and the calibration state. For the current hardware, calibrating the display itself to approx. 250 cd/m2 will result in a usable luminance range of approx. [0.0 - 12.0] cd/m2 at the eye.\\n\\n\\n\\n\\nThese hardware and software designs enable researchers to study human depth perception and address vergence and accommodation under laboratory conditions in ways impossible to do using conventional 2D displays.", "SubmissionID": 33},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "3D and Stereo Vision", "Title": "An examination of behavioral characteristics during the execution of a button pressing task under observing 360-degree images", "Author": "Hisaki Nate", "CoAuthors": "", "Authors": [{"name":"Hisaki Nate","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Tokyo Polytechnic University (JP)"], "Abstract": "I investigated the characteristics of depth perception during the observation of 360-degree video displayed on VR goggles (Meta Quest 3) and the motor models represented during reaching toward a target. In the experiment, participants observed 360-degree images through VR goggles. The subjects’ task was to press virtual buttons located 400 mm, 750 mm, and 1,200 mm away from the subjects’ initial position using a virtual hammer linked to a controller. In the 1,200 mm condition, the subjects had to walk to reach the button. The hammer’s trajectory was recorded. The results showed that while some participants were able to press the buttons, others experienced such a discrepancy between their perceived depth and the button’s actual position that they were unable to press the button on the first attempt. the time required to press the button increased exponentially as the distance to the button increased. One possible cause for this was that the error in subjective depth increased with distance, resulting in a suboptimal hammer trajectory. Other possibility was that the hammer’s travel time increased due to the greater distance. The results for the hammer trajectory length and tortuosity also increased exponentially with increasing the distance between the button and subjects. And the fractal dimension increased linearly. These results indicated that the increase was not due to the greater the distance, but rather that the hammer’s trajectory became more complex, thereby rejecting the hypothesis that the effect was caused by increased the distance. And these results suggested that when observing 360-degree images through VR goggles, the subject’s subjective depth error increases as the button moves further away from them. The error in perceived depth is thought to be caused by the fact that 360-degree video provides fewer depth cues than the real world.", "SubmissionID": 79},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "3D and Stereo Vision", "Title": "Transitions in binocular rivalry qualitatively change with age", "Author": "Cemre Yılmaz", "CoAuthors": "Tamara Jellen, Maximilian Gerschütz, Andreas Bartels, Natalia Zaretskaya", "Authors": [{"name":"Cemre Yılmaz","aff":[1]},{"name":"Tamara Jellen","aff":[1]},{"name":"Maximilian Gerschütz","aff":[1]},{"name":"Andreas Bartels","aff":[2]},{"name":"Natalia Zaretskaya","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Graz (AT)","University of Tübingen (DE)"], "Abstract": "Our rich and complex subjective experience of sensory information is reduced by typical cognitive psychology paradigms to a few pre-defined discrete categories. In our previous study, we demonstrated the complexity of subjective visual experience during binocular rivalry. Rivalry occurs when dissimilar images are presented to each eye, resulting in conscious perception alternating between images separated by brief transition phases. We demonstrated that these transition phases occur in different yet categorizable perceptual forms, that they are affected by the type of stimuli, by contrast, and by attention.\\n\\nPrior studies established that dominance durations in binocular rivalry increase with age while transition durations remain unchanged. However, there may be qualitative changes in transition appearance, which are not captured by quantitative measures. We, therefore, tested eighty-nine healthy adults (ages 18-64) with binocular rivalry induced by three stimulus types (gratings, images, moving dots) as well as their combinations (e.g., image and moving dots). Following each stimulus block, participants provided verbal descriptions and sketches of their transition experiences that were further categorized using qualitative content analysis. \\n\\nOur results confirmed that while dominance durations increased with age, transition durations showed no measurable change. Crucially, we observed significant age-related changes in the appearance of transitions that depended on stimulus content. First, the overall variety of transitions and the frequency of immediate transitions decreased with age for moving dot stimuli, which are associated with dorsal stream processing. Second, piecemeal transitions, which are thought to reflect interocular grouping failure, become more frequent with age for gratings but less frequent for moving dot stimuli. Finally, the increased frequency of halves during rivalry between images and moving dots implies an age-related decline in global competitive interactions between ventral and dorsal streams.\\n\\nThese findings demonstrate that the aging visual system undergoes selective qualitative shifts in perceptual dynamics invisible to conventional quantitative measures.", "SubmissionID": 162},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "3D and Stereo Vision", "Title": "Theta-burst stimulation of hMT+ modulates sensory eye dominance", "Author": "Junyu Wang", "CoAuthors": "Dorita H F Chang", "Authors": [{"name":"Junyu Wang","aff":[1]},{"name":"Dorita H F Chang","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["The University of Hong Kong (HK)"], "Abstract": "Sensory eye dominance (SED) reflects an imbalanced weighting of the two eyes' inputs and is linked to visuomotor deficits, at least in clinical extremes (e.g., amblyopia). While traditionally attributed to the gain control mechanisms in primary visual cortex, SED has been more recently shown to implicate higher cortical regions, most notably, the human middle temporal complex (hMT+).  Whether hMT+ plays a principal role in governing SED, or whether its engagement reflects mere stimulus properties (SED is often indexed using motion stimuli) remains to be teased apart.  Here, we tested whether theta-burst stimulation (TBS) of the right hMT+ modulates SED. We tested 60 adults with normal vision. In Experiment 1, 40 participants received either intermittent (iTBS) or continuous TBS (cTBS) over the right hMT+, completing dichoptic motion and orientation tasks before and after stimulation. Both of these tasks can be used to quantify SED by capturing interocular threshold differences but crucially differ in terms of stimulus features. We found that iTBS, but not cTBS, significantly reduced SED magnitude in both tasks and reduced motion discrimination reaction times (RTs). In Experiment 2, we investigated the temporal characteristics of TBS-induced changes in SED. 20 new participants received iTBS or cTBS, and their SED was indexed using the dichoptic motion task at baseline and at multiple time points extending over 60 minutes post-stimulation. iTBS reduced SED from 30 to 60 minutes post-stimulation relative to baseline. Again, cTBS produced no reliable effects on SED. Motion RTs improved immediately following iTBS, though this benefit was not sustained across repeated post-tests. Our data suggests that hMT+ contributes to binocular balance beyond its established role in motion processing, pointing to a more complex network that governs eye balance than is conventionally considered.", "SubmissionID": 228},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "3D and Stereo Vision", "Title": "BOOK OF THE DARK: IMPORTANCE OF ENVIRONMENTAL CUES FOR PERCEIVED DISTANCE ANISOTROPY", "Author": "Oliver Tošković", "CoAuthors": "", "Authors": [{"name":"Oliver Tošković","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Laboratory for Experimental Psychology, Faculty of Philosophy, University of Belgrade (RS)"], "Abstract": "The anisotropy of perceived distance refers to upward distances being perceived as larger than physically equal downward distances or distances in front of us. This effect is mainly shown in situations with a reduced number of depth cues (dark room). Does perceived distance anisotropy depend on the number of depth cues present? Three experiments were performed, in which participants matched distances of stimuli in two directions, toward the horizon and zenith, but in situations with different amounts of depth cues present. In the first experiment, 29 participants matched distances of two dim light stimuli in a large dark room, monocularly and binocularly. In the second experiment, 17 participants matched distances of two red spheres in virtual reality, in two situations: empty dark space or with a brick wall surface on both directions. In the third experiment, 30 participants matched the distances of two white circles in an outdoor condition in the forest. Results of the first experiment showed a significant effect of direction on distance estimates, and no interaction with the viewing condition (monocular or binocular). In the second experiment, a difference in perceived distance in two directions is detected, with no interaction with the situation (empty space or brick wall). In the third experiment, the effect of direction on distance estimates is observed. In all experiments, the effect of perceived distance anisotropy is observed in the same direction distances toward zenith were perceived as larger than physically equal distances toward the horizon. We can conclude that perceived distance anisotropy is invariant to the amount of environmental information, which may have implications for health-related behaviors involving spatial judgment and navigation in low-visibility conditions requiring interaction with the environment.\\n\\nThis research was supported by the Science Fund of the Republic of Serbia, #2424, Environmental Monitoring of Food and Waterborne Parasites – PARASITE_HUNTER.", "SubmissionID": 251},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "3D and Stereo Vision", "Title": "Temporally demanding stereoscopic training drives effective binocular rebalancing", "Author": "Ka Yee Kam", "CoAuthors": "Dorita H. F. Chang", "Authors": [{"name":"Ka Yee Kam","aff":[1]},{"name":"Dorita H. F. Chang","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["The University of Hong Kong (HK)"], "Abstract": "Optimal binocular vision requires balanced integration of inputs from the two eyes, yet most observers exhibit some degree of sensory eye dominance (SED), an asymmetry in how the two eyes’ inputs are weighted.  While dichoptic perceptual training can reduce SED by enforcing binocular cooperation, it remains unclear as to whether stereoscopic training is able to promote binocular balance, despite the obvious reliance of stereopsis on balanced binocular input.  Here, we asked whether training on a random-dot stereogram (RDS) depth-discrimination task reduces SED in visually normal adults and whether manipulating difficulty through changes in disparity differences versus stimulus duration differentially affects the extent of rebalancing.  Fifty observers were randomly assigned to one of two RDS training tasks completed over three consecutive days (3,600 trials total). In the disparity-manipulation task variant, stimulus presentation duration was fixed, while task difficulty was adjusted by varying the disparity difference between target and reference planes.  In the duration-manipulation task variant, the disparity difference was held constant, and difficulty was modulated by varying presentation duration.  On each trial, participants judged whether the target plane appeared nearer or farther than the reference.  Participants’ performance on both depth task variants, along with their SED (dichoptic signal-noise task) were indexed before and after training.  Results revealed that training improved depth-discrimination performance not only on the trained task, but also on the untrained depth task.  Critically, both groups showed significant reductions in SED after training (i.e., more balanced interocular weighting), with a reliably larger reduction following duration-manipulation than disparity-manipulation training. These findings demonstrate that stereoscopic training drives measurable SED plasticity in visually normal adults and suggest that heightened temporal demands may be particularly effective at promoting binocular rebalancing, perhaps by limiting the temporal window within which interocular suppressive mechanisms can engage.", "SubmissionID": 284},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "3D and Stereo Vision", "Title": "Combined Monocular Deprivation and Perceptual Learning Promotes Long-term Binocular Balance", "Author": "Chenyi Qian", "CoAuthors": "Dorita Chang", "Authors": [{"name":"Chenyi Qian","aff":[1]},{"name":"Dorita Chang","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["The University of Hong Kong (HK)"], "Abstract": "Both short-term monocular deprivation (MD) and visual perceptual learning (VPL) have been shown to alter sensory eye dominance (SED) in adults, yielding a more balanced binocular percept. However, each approach has limitations: MD effects are transient, whereas VPL is time-consuming to conduct. Here, we combined these two approaches to examine whether this produces a more robust and long-lasting shift in SED while remaining efficient to implement. Participants were assigned to one of the four groups, each undergoing a 3-day modulation period: MD only, VPL only, MD followed by VPL, and VPL followed by MD. During MD, observers viewed a movie for 1 hour during which the non-dominant eye viewed low-passed images, and the dominant eye viewed intact images. During VPL, participants trained on a dichoptic motion discrimination task. SED was assessed using the dichoptic motion task before and after modulation, with post-modulation measurements conducted immediately after, at 30 minutes, 24 hours, 1 week, and 1 month after the final day. All groups that received VPL (either in isolation or in combination) showed a reduced SED (i.e., a more balanced percept) that persisted for at least 1 week after modulation. These improvements in SED were accompanied by learning-related improvements on the task (i.e., reduced motion discrimination thresholds). The MD-only group showed a reduced SED immediately after modulation, but returned to baseline within 30 minutes, with no concurrent improvement in task performance. These results suggest that a 3-day VPL protocol is sufficient to induce binocular plasticity that consolidates over time, whereas MD alone, even across repeated sessions, does not produce long-term benefits. We speculate that when MD is delivered in combination with VPL, the MD-induced homeostatic shift towards the deprived eye may render respective neurons more susceptible to subsequent VPL-driven consolidation, potentially leading to longer-lasting changes in binocular balance.", "SubmissionID": 290},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "3D and Stereo Vision", "Title": "Measuring suppression-related attenuation of stimulus information in binocular rivalry", "Author": "Erin Goddard", "CoAuthors": "Erin Goddard", "Authors": [{"name":"Erin Goddard","aff":[1]},{"name":"Erin Goddard","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["University of New South Wales (AU)"], "Abstract": "Binocular rivalry (BR) is a perceptual phenomenon in which conflicting images presented to each eye cannot be fused into a stable percept, and perception spontaneously oscillates between the two images. While BR has been studied extensively, the role of attention in the neural dynamics of BR remains unclear. We used magnetoencephalography (MEG) to compare the neural information about a dominant BR percept and the associated suppressed stimulus, and how attention modulates this relationship. Participants (N = 16) viewed a stimulus with a rivalrous and non-rivalrous component, alternating whether their attention was directed to the rivalrous or non-rivalrous component. We used classification analyses to quantify the amount of information about each stimulus component contained in the MEG signal over time. As expected, classifier accuracy is greater for the attended than the unattended non-rivalrous stimulus, from ~200ms post stimulus presentation. For the BR stimulus, we decoded the image content of both dominant and suppressed stimuli, finding that information about the suppressed stimulus was surprisingly robust. Information about the suppressed stimulus was lower than the dominant stimulus, but was less attenuated than the unattended non-rivalrous stimulus. Overall, the decoding dynamics are consistent with the onset of BR involving similar processes to engaging covert spatial attention.", "SubmissionID": 291},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Attention", "Title": "Attention-Driven Excitatory Neurometabolic Dynamics in the Human Visual Cortex: Evidence from Task-Based fMRS", "Author": "Li-Hung Chang", "CoAuthors": "I-Ting Lee, Shang-Hua Lin, Rong-Rung Kuo, Ching-Po Lin", "Authors": [{"name":"Li-Hung Chang","aff":[1]},{"name":"I-Ting Lee","aff":[1]},{"name":"Shang-Hua Lin","aff":[1]},{"name":"Rong-Rung Kuo","aff":[1]},{"name":"Ching-Po Lin","aff":[1,2]}], "Affiliations": ["Institute of Neuroscience, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University (TW)","Department of Education and Research, Taipei City Hospital (TW)"], "Abstract": "Sustained attention, encompassing the maintenance of both external and internal focus over time, is essential to effective perception and learning. Distributed brain networks supporting sustained attention have been extensively documented, including prefrontal, cingulate, thalamic, and visual cortices. Although recent studies have highlighted the visual cortex's involvement in early-stage attention modulation, its underlying neurochemical mechanisms remain insufficiently understood. Our prior work has demonstrated that excitatory neurotransmitters, particularly glutamate (Glu) and the combined glutamate-glutamine signal (Glx), play a critical role in perceptual learning—a process that typically requires prolonged and focused attentional engagement. Here, we applied time-resolved functional magnetic resonance spectroscopy (fMRS) at 3T to examine whether sustained attentional demands modulate Glx levels in the visual cortex. Five healthy adults completed three noontime sessions across consecutive days using a block design with alternating rest and visual stimulation periods. A vigilance task during central fixation ensured continuous attentional engagement. Each session comprised four spectra acquired via the PRESS sequence (TR = 2s, TE = 30 ms, 160 time points) yielding 40 time-resolved data points (temporal resolution = 32s). Spectra with CRLB >15% were excluded for quality control, and attentional performance was quantified by vigilance task response accuracy. Time-resolved analysis revealed significantly elevated Glx concentrations during stimulation relative to rest blocks (F(443)=24.01, p<0.001), with no significant change in GSH, NAA, or creatine. In contrast, time- averaged spectra (temporal resolution = 320s) failed to capture this effect, underscoring the necessity of fine temporal resolution. Furthermore, Glx concentrations exhibited a significant positive correlation with attentional performance (r = 0.59, p = 0.041). Together, these findings demonstrate that visual cortical Glx is dynamically modulated by visual stimulation, with modulation magnitude further shaped by attentional demands, suggesting a potential link between attention-driven Glx signatures and early sensory processing mechanisms, possibly contributing to perceptual learning.", "SubmissionID": 21},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Attention", "Title": "Using Eye Tracking to Understand Imperfect Knowledge of both Object Identities and Object Locations in the Multiple Object Awareness Paradigm", "Author": "PRASAD MANE", "CoAuthors": "Haden Dewis, Arezoo Pooresmaeili, Hayward Godwin", "Authors": [{"name":"PRASAD MANE","aff":[1]},{"name":"Haden Dewis","aff":[1]},{"name":"Arezoo Pooresmaeili","aff":[1]},{"name":"Hayward Godwin","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Southampton (UK)"], "Abstract": "In everyday environments, people frequently need to maintain awareness of multiple moving objects simultaneously. Traditional Multiple Object Tracking (MOT) and Multiple Identity Tracking (MIT) paradigms typically assess performance using binary accuracy measures, which may underestimate the information observers retain about their environment. The Multiple Object Awareness (MOA) paradigm addresses this limitation by allowing multiple response attempts, enabling the measurement of graded awareness. Here we used the MOA paradigm in combination with eye tracking to examine whether observers retain partial information about both the locations and identities of moving objects. Across two experiments, participants were asked to track coloured squares moving within a display. After a period of time, all squares stopped moving and were replaced with grey disks. Participants were then asked to indicate the location of a target square. We analysed the number of clicks required to identify the target, spatial proximity of incorrect responses, colour similarity between selected items and the target, and eye movement behaviour during tracking. Our results indicated that incorrect selections were systematically closer to the target location and more similar in colour than expected by chance, indicating the presence of imprecise spatial and identity representations. Eye movement measures provided converging evidence linking this graded awareness to attentional and working memory allocation: greater fixation time on the target predicted fewer attempts required to locate it, whereas longer intervals since the last fixation were associated with reduced precision, particularly under higher tracking load. These findings provide converging evidence that visual awareness during multiple object tracking is graded rather than all-or-nothing.", "SubmissionID": 37},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Attention", "Title": "A model for perceptual traveling waves grounded in Normalization", "Author": "Jay Jawale", "CoAuthors": "André R. Zarza Tapia, David J. Heeger, Laura Dugué", "Authors": [{"name":"Jay Jawale","aff":[1]},{"name":"André R. Zarza Tapia","aff":[1]},{"name":"David J. Heeger","aff":[2,3]},{"name":"Laura Dugué","aff":[1,4]}], "Affiliations": ["Université Paris Cité, CNRS, Integrative Neuroscience and Cognition Center (FR)","Department of Psychology, New York University (US)","Center for Neural Science, New York University (US)","Institut Universitaire de France (FR)"], "Abstract": "Attention rhythmically fluctuates at low frequencies (<20 Hz) creating cycles of increased and decreased perceptual performance, supported by brain oscillations at corresponding frequencies (VanRullen, 2016 Fiebelkorn and Kastner, 2019 Kienitz, Schmid and Dugué, 2022). Recent work showed that these oscillations can propagate across the retinotopic visual cortex as Traveling Waves –smooth phase shifts propagating across cortical space (Dugué and Chavane, 2025). Critically, behavioral empirical evidence suggests that traveling waves can modulate perceptual cycles in space, i.e., perceptual cycles can travel across the retinotopic space (Fakche and Dugué, 2024). Here, we propose a biophysically-plausible computational model to explain traveling waves in the primary visual cortex (V1) and predict the consequences on perceptual cycles. We make use of the principles developed in an existing V1 model of perceptual traveling waves during binocular rivalry –a phenomenon where the dominance of a rival image progressively shifts to the suppressed image as an illusory perceptual wave (Cardoso, Li, Heeger and Dugué, 2025). The model posits that these perceptual waves are driven by attentional modulation and mutual inhibition to drive competition between the rival images, and rely on the phenomenological principle of normalization –a canonical computation explaining how attentional allocation modulates visual cortex responses (Carandini and Heeger, 2012). We first extended this model using the ORGaNICs framework, a class of biophysically-plausible recurrent neural circuits which have divisive normalization as an emergent property (Heeger and Mackey, 2019). Using this framework applied to the neurophysiological constraints of V1, we replicated the previous model of binocular rivalry with an emphasis on biophysical plausibility. We then assessed the generalizability of the model predictions to empirical data other than binocular rivalry and in which perceptual cycles propagate across the retinotopic space. Together, we characterized the circuit-level mechanisms of traveling waves and offer a model to guide future behavioral predictions.", "SubmissionID": 53},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Attention", "Title": "Visual attention without multisensory support: single-channel perception constraints in military FPV drone operators", "Author": "Gilles Deles-Velins", "CoAuthors": "", "Authors": [{"name":"Gilles Deles-Velins","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Latvia, Faculty of Education Sciences and Psychology (LV)"], "Abstract": "Military FPV (first-person view) drone operators work in a perceptual condition rarely studied in controlled settings: enclosed goggles deliver a single monocular video feed as the sole perceptual input, with no vestibular, proprioceptive, or aerodynamic feedback. Auditory input is further restricted by operational constraints. This configuration eliminates the multisensory redundancy that normally supports attentional reorienting. Models that predict graded, load-proportional exclusion of peripheral information would expect monitoring to resume as task demands decrease. The present data could suggest a different pattern.\\n\\nNine semi-structured interviews with military drone operators (Latvian National Guard and Ukrainian combat FPV pilots), analysed through thematic coding, identified attentional phenomena specific to this single-channel condition. Three convergent findings emerged. First, operators report that flight parameters displayed within the visual feed become functionally inaccessible during target engagement, with several describing complete loss of awareness of peripheral display elements, including active blinking alarms. Second, trainee pilots who attempt to shift attention from the video stream to flight parameters lose aircraft control instantaneously, suggesting a discrete attentional toggle rather than graded reallocation. Third, the attentionally accessible region contracts spatially toward the display centre during engagement, with parameters at screen edges remaining functionally undetected leading operators to reconfigure indicator layouts accordingly.\\n\\nTogether, these observations point to attentional exclusion that is discontinuous rather than graded, and spatially structured rather than uniform. Operators spontaneously compensate through a voice-linked co-pilot, the only available cross-modal channel. These convergent phenomena - arising under reduced sensorimotor embodiment and constrained multisensory integration - suggest that single-channel visual operation constitutes a distinct perceptual regime, with implications for understanding how bodily feedback contributes to attentional flexibility.", "SubmissionID": 134},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Attention", "Title": "Similar Effects but Separate Mechanisms: Attention in Multistability and Visual Search", "Author": "Alexander Pastukhov", "CoAuthors": "Kathrin Butzhammer, Noelle Frank, Maxin Hölscher, Claus-Chrisitan Carbon, Árni Kristjánsson", "Authors": [{"name":"Alexander Pastukhov","aff":[1,2,3]},{"name":"Kathrin Butzhammer","aff":[1]},{"name":"Noelle Frank","aff":[1]},{"name":"Maxin Hölscher","aff":[1]},{"name":"Claus-Chrisitan Carbon","aff":[1,2,3]},{"name":"Árni Kristjánsson","aff":[4]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Bamberg (DE)","Research Group EPÆG - Ergonomics, Psychological Æsthetics, Gestalt (DE)","Bamberg Graduate School of Affective and Cognitive Sciences (BaGrACS) (DE)","University of Iceland (IS)"], "Abstract": "Visual attention enables selective prioritization of relevant information, shaping both what we perceive and how efficiently we act on it. Two well-documented phenomena that reflect this influence are volitional control in multistable perception and attentional priming in visual search. In multistable perception, attention allows observers to bias or modulate perceptual alternations between competing interpretations of an ambiguous stimulus. In visual search, repeated selection of a target feature facilitates faster detection, reflecting attentional priming. Despite their conceptual similarities, it remains unclear whether these effects rely on shared underlying mechanisms.  Here, we directly compared these phenomena within the same participants by using a shared stimulus feature, the direction of a sphere’s rotation. In the multistable perception task, participants viewed an ambiguous rotating sphere and attempted to modulate the rate of perceptual switches between alternative rotation directions. In the visual search task, participants identified a target defined by its rotation direction, allowing us to quantify attentional priming through repetition benefits. This within-subject design enabled us to assess whether individual differences in attentional control generalize across tasks. Participants showed robust effects in both paradigms: they successfully influenced perceptual dynamics in multistable displays and exhibited reliable attentional priming in visual search. However, individual performance did not correlate across tasks. This dissociation suggests that, although both phenomena are shaped by selective attention and share similar behavioral signatures, they rely on mechanisms that are at least partially distinct. These findings clarify how attention operates across different perceptual contexts and highlight the importance of distinguishing between superficially similar effects when developing models of visual attention and perceptual selection. All data and analysis code are publicly available at https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/HJWSU", "SubmissionID": 154},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Attention", "Title": "Classifying Focused and Switched Attention Based on Eye Tracking Across Single and Dual Tasks", "Author": "Aimee Martin", "CoAuthors": "Aylin Kallmayer, Philipp Raggam, Kieran Smith, Benedikt Gollan", "Authors": [{"name":"Aimee Martin","aff":[1]},{"name":"Aylin Kallmayer","aff":[1]},{"name":"Philipp Raggam","aff":[1]},{"name":"Kieran Smith","aff":[1]},{"name":"Benedikt Gollan","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Somareality (AT)"], "Abstract": "Attention can be either allocated in a focused manner towards a single task or distributed across multiple tasks, requiring ongoing attentional switching. Distinguishing between these two attentional states is important in real world environments, such as driving, medical training, and aviation. The present study aimed to validate our Attention Type Classifier (ATC) that uses eye tracking data to differentiate between focused and switched attention. Participants wore mobile eye tracking glasses while completing two tasks intended to demonstrate two attentional states. In the single task, participants preformed a rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP) paradigm, where participants responded to infrequently shown numbers embedded within a stream of letters. This was expected to demonstrate focused attention due to the sustained attentional processing at a single task. In the dual task, participants performed the same RSVP at the centre, while simultaneously monitoring the four corners of the screen for a Gabor patch and reporting its orientation (e.g., tilted left or right). This required repeated shifts of attention between the central and peripheral tasks, therefore inducing attentional task switching. Results demonstrated that our ATC algorithm classified a significantly higher probability of switched attention during the dual task, compared to the single task. Behavioural data supported this, with reduced accuracy and slower reactions times observed under the dual task, indicating reduced attentional resources for the RSVP task. Accuracy did not differ between the central and peripheral tasks within the dual task, suggesting that attention was distributed in a similar manner across both single tasks rather than prioritising one task over the other. Overall, these findings demonstrate that eye movement patterns provide reliable markers of attentional states. The ability of our ATC algorithm to distinguish between focused and switched attention in controlled settings provides a foundation for extending this towards naturalistic environments.", "SubmissionID": 173},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Attention", "Title": "Traveling Waves in Attentional Orienting and Reorienting", "Author": "Yue Kong", "CoAuthors": "Kirsten Petras, David M. Alexander, Benjamin Rohaut, Laura Dugué", "Authors": [{"name":"Yue Kong","aff":[1]},{"name":"Kirsten Petras","aff":[1]},{"name":"David M. Alexander","aff":[1]},{"name":"Benjamin Rohaut","aff":[2]},{"name":"Laura Dugué","aff":[1,3]}], "Affiliations": ["Université Paris Cité, CNRS, Integrative Neuroscience and Cognition Center (FR)","Sorbonne Université, Institut du Cerveau - Paris Brain Institute - ICM, Inserm, CNRS, AP-HP - Hôpital de la Pitié Salpêtrière - DMU Neurosciences - Neuro ICU (FR)","Institut Universitaire de France (FR)"], "Abstract": "Attention –the selection and facilitation of sensory information processing– is associated with low-frequency neural oscillations across distributed brain regions (Kienitz et al., 2022). Specifically, sustained attentional orienting is commonly associated with alpha-band oscillations (8-12Hz), whereas during attentional reorienting, theta-band oscillations (4-7Hz) dominate. Despite the inherently spatio-temporal nature of attention, most studies have examined it primarily in either the spatial or temporal domain alone, thereby limiting explanatory power. Recent work suggests that alpha oscillations propagate across the cortex as traveling waves during sustained orienting of spatial attention (Alamia et al., 2023 Fakche et al., 2024). Our latest work demonstrated that TMS-induced theta traveling waves causally contribute to visual search, highlighting their potential role in exploratory attention (Kong et al., 2026). Yet, the role of traveling waves across distinct attentional processes remains to be clarified. Here, we assessed the functional role of low-frequency traveling waves in attentional orienting and reorienting using simultaneous MEG-EEG recordings with psychophysics. Human participants (N=20) performed an orientation discrimination task where an auditory cue directed visual attention either toward the upcoming target location (valid –attention is sustained at that location) or the distractor location (invalid –attention reorients to the target location, i.e., exploration). We first confirmed successful attentional manipulation behaviorally (higher sensitivity in valid trials) and electrophysiologically (stronger alpha power in ipsilateral MEG-EEG sensors relative to the attended location in the cue-to-stimulus period). We then characterized single-trial traveling waves properties (i.e., direction, normalized velocity) and compared them across attentional conditions. Our results indicate that distinct patterns of low-frequency traveling waves differentiate sustained from exploratory attention. Moreover, combining MEG and EEG provides a complementary perspective on the spatio-temporal features of these traveling waves, shedding light on their potential anatomical pathways. Together, our findings support a functional role for low-frequency traveling waves in mediating sustained and exploratory attention.", "SubmissionID": 175},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Attention", "Title": "Real-time tracking of pupil-phase fluctuations reveals state-dependent changes in temporal attentional capacity during the attentional blink", "Author": "Yuta Suzuki", "CoAuthors": "Hsin-I Liao", "Authors": [{"name":"Yuta Suzuki","aff":[1]},{"name":"Hsin-I Liao","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["NTT Communication Science Laboratories (JP)"], "Abstract": "Pupil diameter is widely used as an index of arousal and neuromodulatory activity. For example, sustained changes in pupil diameter (i.e., baseline pupil size) have been linked to arousal levels and behavioral performance across a wide range of cognitive tasks. In addition to the sustained pupil responses, recent studies showed that pupil dynamics exhibit slow fluctuations (<0.2 Hz), which reflect ongoing brain-state transitions. Specifically, the slow pupil fluctuations correlate with large-scale neural dynamics, including sensory cortical activity and the default mode network. The finding suggests a possibility of using pupil-phase fluctuations to track cognitive performance, particularly in tasks that reflect temporal limits of cognitive capacity. Here we addressed this issue using an auditory attentional blink paradigm. Participants were required to detect two auditory targets (T1 and T2) embedded in rapid auditory streams. The effective attentional capacity was defined by the T2 detection rate given that T1 was detected correctly (T2|T1). In experiment 1, trial-by-trial analyses of the slow pupil fluctuations revealed a phase-dependent modulation. The probability of T2|T1 detection increased approximately 0–2 s following the onset of the pupil dilation phase. To test whether this phase-dependent modulation reflects a causal influence of ongoing brain-state, we implemented a closed-loop design in Experiment 2. Pupil diameter was monitored in real time, and target presentation was triggered during either the pupil dilation or constriction phases, respectively. Results showed that the target detection rate was better when the targets were presented during the pupil dilation phase than when they were presented during the pupil constriction phase, suggesting a potential influence of pupil phase on attentional capacity. Our results suggest that temporal attentional capacity is not fixed but fluctuates with ongoing brain-state dynamics, highlighting slow pupil fluctuation as a distinct physiological marker of cognitive state.", "SubmissionID": 182},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Attention", "Title": "The effects of action preparation on attentional resource allocation: behavioral and pupillometric evidence", "Author": "Roy Ramati", "CoAuthors": "Joo-Hyun Song, Yaffa Yeshurun", "Authors": [{"name":"Roy Ramati","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Joo-Hyun Song","aff":[2]},{"name":"Yaffa Yeshurun","aff":[1,2]}], "Affiliations": ["School of Psychological Sciences, University of Haifa (IL)","Institute of Information Processing and Decision Making, University of Haifa (IL)","Department of Cognitive and Psychological Sciences, Brown University (US)"], "Abstract": "Preparing a motor action has been previously shown to enhance perceptual discrimination, yet the mechanism underlying this enhancement remains unclear. One candidate account holds that action preparation results in allocating additional resources to task-relevant stimuli. The present study examined this hypothesis across two experiments using behavioral performance and the pupillary light response (PLR) as a measure of covert attentional resource allocation. \\n\\nGiven that the pupil responds rather slowly, Experiment 1 examined whether the action-preparation perceptual benefit extends to longer stimulus onset asynchronies (SOAs). Participants indicated whether two consecutive targets, separated by varying SOAs (300–1500ms), had the same orientation. In the ‘no-action’ condition participants only performed this discrimination task. In the ‘pointing’ condition they also directly acted on the 2nd target by pointing at it, thus, they were required to prepare the action during the SOA. Replicating prior findings, we observed a significant main effect of condition: perceptual sensitivity (d′) was higher in the pointing condition. Yet, there was no condition x SOA interaction, suggesting that action preparation enhanced perception robustly across a wide range of temporal intervals.\\n\\nExperiment 2 extended this paradigm by incorporating PLR measurements to directly probe attentional allocation. In this experiment, half of the screen was white and half black, and the targets appeared on either side, equally often. Given that covertly shifting attention into darker regions increases pupil size while covertly shifting attention to lighter regions decreases pupil size, the difference in pupil size between target-on-black and target-on-white trials serves as an index of attentional engagement. Results show larger pupil-size difference in the pointing condition than in the no-action condition, suggesting that action preparation actively recruits additional attentional resources. Together, these findings provide the first converging behavioral and physiological evidence that action-induced perceptual enhancement may be mediated by the allocation of attentional resources.", "SubmissionID": 188},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Cognition, Decision Making, and Confidence", "Title": "No empirical evidence for input-dependent noise in purely relative models of perceptual decision-making", "Author": "Angelo Pirrone", "CoAuthors": "Cesare Parise, Nathan Evans", "Authors": [{"name":"Angelo Pirrone","aff":[1]},{"name":"Cesare Parise","aff":[1]},{"name":"Nathan Evans","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Liverpool (UK)"], "Abstract": "In perceptual binary decision-making tasks, higher overall stimulus intensity often leads to faster and less accurate responses. This effect has been explained with models where difference in evidence is accumulated to a decision threshold while processing noise increases with overall stimulus intensity. Here we present empirical evidence from brightness discrimination tasks inconsistent with the proposal that processing noise scales with stimulus intensity. First, in tasks where participants make a decision when prompted by the experimenter (interrogation protocol), data show that accuracy does not decrease with increasing stimulus intensity, contrary to what input-dependent noise would predict. Second, in a task where participants can respond in their own time (free-response protocol), we observe that confidence increases with stimulus intensity even for equal-alternative conditions. Depending on how confidence is defined, input-dependent noise predicts that confidence should either remain stable or decrease or vary systematically with reaction time. We show that all these predictions are not supported by data. Finally, although data consistent with input-dependent noise have been observed in two-stimuli tasks, input-dependent noise predictions should also hold for single-stimulus tasks. Analyses of single-stimulus tasks show no systematic relationship between stimulus intensity and either reaction time or accuracy. Taken together, these results cannot be explained by the input-dependent noise hypothesis. We show how these results can instead be explained by response competition models.", "SubmissionID": 14},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Cognition, Decision Making, and Confidence", "Title": "Predicting Human Viewpoint Preference with Deep Neural Network Embeddings", "Author": "Athanasios Bourganos", "CoAuthors": "Dirk Bernhardt-Walther", "Authors": [{"name":"Athanasios Bourganos","aff":[1]},{"name":"Dirk Bernhardt-Walther","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Toronto (CA)"], "Abstract": "Humans prefer some object views over others, but the representational basis of these judgments remains unclear. Rather than treating canonicity as a discrete category, we approach it as a continuous perceptual variable around three-dimensional objects. We collected human ratings of viewpoint canonicity across multiple perspectives of the same objects to obtain average canonicity measurements. Using these ratings, we estimate the canonical fields (the maps of perceptual privilege) for this object set. Using these human behavioral ratings as ground truth, we show that deep image models accurately predict human canonicity judgments when anchored to the most canonical perspective (the view with the highest average canonicity rating). Specifically, distances in high-dimensional feature spaces (latent spaces) between the preferred view and other views closely track human ratings. These results suggest that the statistical distributions of object views in large image datasets may reflect human canonicity bias, because we often photograph objects from canonical perspectives.", "SubmissionID": 169},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Cognition, Decision Making, and Confidence", "Title": "Integrating the Simon Effect into Task-Switching: A Study on Cognitive Stability and Flexibility", "Author": "Ping-shien Lee", "CoAuthors": "Anders Petersen", "Authors": [{"name":"Ping-shien Lee","aff":[1]},{"name":"Anders Petersen","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Copenhagen (DK)"], "Abstract": "Task-switching experiments have been used to study cognitive stability (maintaining focus on the current task goal) and flexibility (efficient shift between tasks). These constructs are typically benchmarked by the task-rule congruency effect and the switch cost. However, the task-rule congruency effect is largely shaped by learned, instructed category–response associations, theoretically distinguishing it from the congruency effects observed in standard conflict tasks (e.g., Stroop, Simon, and flanker tasks). Comparing with the former, congruency effects more directly capture the degree of perceptual conflict between target and distractor stimuli in the standard conflict tasks. To better examine the relationship between perceptual conflict control and task switching, we introduce a novel paradigm that integrates Simon stimuli within a task-switching design. This allows us to measure the Simon effect (conflict control) and switch cost (flexibility) simultaneously. Results showed significant effects for both the Simon effect and switch cost, confirming that the paradigm successfully captures both conflict control (stability) and cognitive flexibility. A mixed-effects model of the delta plots further suggests that the Simon effect is significantly higher for the switch condition than for the repeat condition. However, no relationship between Simon effect and switch cost was observed, indicating no trade-off between stability and flexibility.", "SubmissionID": 235},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Cognition, Decision Making, and Confidence", "Title": "Mind the snake in the shadows: Preattentive processing and autonomic responses to subliminal evolutionary threats", "Author": "Giosuè Addis", "CoAuthors": "Cecilia Dapor, Philippe A. Chouinard, Federica Meconi, Irene Sperandio", "Authors": [{"name":"Giosuè Addis","aff":[1]},{"name":"Cecilia Dapor","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Philippe A. Chouinard","aff":[3]},{"name":"Federica Meconi","aff":[1]},{"name":"Irene Sperandio","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Trento (IT)","Paris Nanterre University - UFR STAPS (FR)","La Trobe University (AU)"], "Abstract": "In the course of evolution, human survival has largely depended on the ability to rapidly detect and respond to potential threats. Accordingly, the human visual system has evolved mechanisms that enable us to detect danger before conscious awareness. Previous studies have reported enhanced detection abilities and increased electrodermal activity in response to subliminal presentations of snake and spider images, with stronger effects in individuals with specific phobias. However, this advantage in the unconscious processing of evolutionarily threatening animals has not been consistently supported in the literature. Across two experiments, we subliminally presented spider and snake images, in both intact and scrambled versions, using the breaking Continuous Flash Suppression (bCFS) technique. In both experiments, we recorded the time required for the stimuli to break through suppression, as well as several physiological indices, including skin conductance, pupil dilation, and facial EMG. We also assessed participants’ levels of specific phobias using the Spider Fear Questionnaire (SPQ-12) and the Snake Anxiety Questionnaire (SNAQ-12) to investigate potential interindividual differences in physiological and behavioural responses. Additionally, in the second experiment, participants were asked to report how clearly they saw the stimulus and to categorize it. In both experiments, we observed shorter breakthrough times for snakes than for spiders, and faster responses to intact images than to their scrambled counterparts. Moreover, both animals were associated with higher electrodermal responses even before reaching visual awareness. In the first experiment, pupillometry analyses further revealed a clear preconscious advantage of threatening animals. When taking inter-individual differences in phobia level into account, the results suggest an avoidant response in arachnophobics compared to non-phobic participants. Together, our findings support the existence of a subcortical pathway that is preattentively activated to prepare the organism to react to potential threats. Moreover, this network appears to respond differently depending on individuals’ levels of phobia.", "SubmissionID": 261},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Cognition, Decision Making, and Confidence", "Title": "Reaction Times Reflect Distances in a Perceptual Similarity Space", "Author": "Ivana Kapounová", "CoAuthors": "Jiri Lukavsky", "Authors": [{"name":"Ivana Kapounová","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Jiri Lukavsky","aff":[2]}], "Affiliations": ["Department of Psychology, Faculty of Arts, Charles University (CZ)","Institute of Psychology, Czech Academy of Sciences (CZ)"], "Abstract": "People frequently diverge in their similarity judgments, reflecting underlying differences in the cognitive processes and object features they prioritize. This study examines how choice behavior and response speed are shaped by the similarity-based embedding of object representations. We build on the previous work by Hebart et al. (2020) using the THINGS database. This embedding captures perceived similarity as distances in a high-dimensional psychological space. \\n\\nFifty participants completed a two-alternative forced-choice similarity judgment task. On each trial, a target image was presented above two candidate images, and participants selected the object that was more similar to the target. Task difficulty was operationalized in two alternative ways: either as the difference or as the ratio of each candidate object’s similarity to the target. Log-transformed reaction times were predicted from trial difficulty and mean pairwise similarity using Bayesian multilevel models with by-participant random intercepts and slopes.\\n\\nReaction times varied systematically with representational distance, with easier trials yielding faster responses. Model comparison indicated that the difference metric provided a slightly better fit than the ratio metric. Slower participants showed stronger sensitivity to difficulty. The fixed effect of difficulty explained approximately 20% of the variance, whereas the full hierarchical model accounted for 42%, highlighting a substantial contribution of inter-individual variability. Our findings confirm that decision difficulty based on psychological distance predicts response speed, yet the substantial inter-individual variability uncovered by our hierarchical models suggests that people navigate these high-dimensional spaces using unique cognitive weights and feature priorities.", "SubmissionID": 320},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Cognition, Decision Making, and Confidence", "Title": "Opposing psychophysical laws in perceptual decision-making revealed by single-trial EEG modelling", "Author": "Gabriel Weindel", "CoAuthors": "Jelmer P. Borst, Leendert van Maanen", "Authors": [{"name":"Gabriel Weindel","aff":[1]},{"name":"Jelmer P. Borst","aff":[2]},{"name":"Leendert van Maanen","aff":[3]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Lausanne (CH)","University of Goningen (NL)","Utrecht University (NL)"], "Abstract": "Judging Gabor patches by their contrast can reveal properties of vision and decision-making processes hidden within the chain of processing that composes the reaction time (RT). In the case of visual contrast, Piéron's law states that increasing contrast results in a shorter reaction time following a negative power law. Fechner's law predicts that the time required to judge the difference in contrast between two patches is proportional to the logarithm of their physical intensity ratio. In this study, we demonstrate how these laws manifest in the RTs of participants performing a contrast discrimination task between two Gabor patches using electroencephalography (EEG). We manipulated the contrast of the Gabor patches so that the contrast difference remained constant while the pedestal contrast varied from trial to trial. We expected this manipulation to produce opposing effects on RT according to both laws: 1) increasing the pedestal contrast should decrease RT according to Piéron's law, and 2) should increase RT due to a more difficult decision according to Fechner's law.\\n\\nAt the behavioral level, the manipulation revealed that participants' accuracy followed Fechner's law while their RT exhibited a combination of both laws. We analyzed the EEG using the hidden multivariate pattern method that models the single-trial signal as a sequence of an unknown number of trial-recurrent, sequential and time-varying EEG topographies. In this task, five of these brain events summarized the EEG signal occurring within participants' RTs. The single-trial estimate of the timing of events associated with visual processing followed Piéron's law. The timing of the decision and motor-related event followed Fechner's law and their buildup predicted correct response proportions with a very high accuracy. Overall, this shows that using this EEG-RT modelling approach we can decipher between visual, decisional and motor processes happening during the RT.", "SubmissionID": 328},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Cognition, Decision Making, and Confidence", "Title": "Adding ambiguity into already ambiguous spatial models", "Author": "Calvin Laursen", "CoAuthors": "", "Authors": [{"name":"Calvin Laursen","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Bournemouth University (UK)"], "Abstract": "Ambiguity detection, understanding if a text describing the arrangement of objects/subjects that has more than one valid interpretation, in mental models, is not well understood. I explored the differences in people’s ability to detect ambiguity depending on the point at which ambiguity is introduced i.e., Second Premise vs, Third Premise. I found that people are significantly better at detecting ambiguity when underspecificity is introduced by the third premise i.e., causing a model with only one viable solution to have more than one, compared to when the third premise simply adds underspecificity to the first two premises that already have more than one viable solution. Indicating that adding ambiguity to unambiguous situations is easier to process/detect than adding additional ambiguity to ambiguity. I suggest that this may be due to the third premise, which introduces ambiguity, encouraging re-evaluation of the model as whole which does not occur when the third premise adds more ambiguity to an already ambiguous situation. However, additional research is required in order to ascertain whether this is the case", "SubmissionID": 336},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Cognition, Decision Making, and Confidence", "Title": "The Efficacy-Proximity Paradox: Visual Framing, Affective Persistence, and the Behavioral Breadth of Climate Action", "Author": "Minxuan Duan", "CoAuthors": "Feng Mao, Lory Barile, Zihao Zhao, Hong Xu", "Authors": [{"name":"Minxuan Duan","aff":[1]},{"name":"Feng Mao","aff":[2]},{"name":"Lory Barile","aff":[2]},{"name":"Zihao Zhao","aff":[1]},{"name":"Hong Xu","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Nanyang Technological University (SG)","University of Warwick (UK)"], "Abstract": "Climate communication often heightens concern without translating it into action. This study examined how visual framing reorganizes cognitive, emotional, and behavioral pathways through which climate messages endure. These analyses are based on an interim subset of a preregistered study. Sixty-two participants (M_age = 26.68, SD = 8.39 53.2% male) viewed 2025 climate images drawn from CNN, Herald Sun, and The Straits Times. Stimuli were coded for equivalence and assigned to hazard, solution, or mixed frames. Participants completed Q-sorts of 40 images on efficacy, importance, and proximity, reported affect during viewing, sorting, and 24 hours later, described content, and listed green actions.\\n\\nFraming altered the cognitive structure of the image sets. In the hazard condition, efficacy was unrelated to importance (r = .04, p = .815) and modestly associated with proximity (r = .31, p = .048). In the solution condition, efficacy was more strongly associated with importance (r = .51, p = .001) and proximity (r = .75, p < .001), exceeding hazard and mixed conditions. Within the mixed set, solution images were judged more efficacious than hazard images (r = .55, p < .001), whereas hazard images were judged more proximal (r_pb = -.36, p = .022). Thus, what felt psychologically close did not necessarily feel actionable.\\n\\nLinear mixed-effects models showed that most affective responses declined by 24 hours, including positive affect (B = -3.99, p = .001), negative affect (B = -5.62, p < .001), anxiety (B = -0.50, p = .013), awe (B = -0.46, p = .036), and disgust (B = -0.83, p < .001). Hope was the most durable emotion: it showed no reliable overall decline, and solution framing sustained higher hope than hazard framing (B = 0.77, p = .039). Greater 24-hour hope predicted broader action breadth, whereas greater 24-hour anxiety predicted narrower breadth.", "SubmissionID": 355},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Cognition, Decision Making, and Confidence", "Title": "Confirmation Bias Under Social Influence: Gaze and Pupillary Signatures of Attentional Amplification and Effortful Belief Updating", "Author": "Bin Zhan", "CoAuthors": "Yi Jiang", "Authors": [{"name":"Bin Zhan","aff":[1]},{"name":"Yi Jiang","aff":[2,3]}], "Affiliations": ["Institute of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Liaoning Normal University (CN)","State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Science and Mental Health, Institute of Psychology, Chinese Academy of Sciences (CN)","Department of Psychology, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences (CN)"], "Abstract": "Confirmation bias can preserve stable beliefs but also impair adaptive belief updating during social disagreement. Here, we tested whether this bias is implemented through dissociable attentional and arousal-linked mechanisms during social change of mind. Participants completed a two-stage social perceptual decision task: they first judged ambiguous visual images and rated confidence, then saw a dissenting advisor’s choice and confidence before deciding whether to stay or switch. Eye movements and pupil diameter were recorded during this revision phase. Participants showed a strong confirmation bias, staying with their initial choice more often than expected by indifference, despite initial accuracy on disagreement trials being near chance, and requiring the advisor to be much more confident before switching. Drift-diffusion modeling showed that evidence accumulation weighted self-confidence more strongly than advisor confidence, whereas a starting-point account was not supported. Participants also looked longer at their own confidence, and greater self-gaze predicted a higher probability of staying. An attentional drift-diffusion model favored a multiplicative mechanism in which gaze increased the impact of the attended confidence signal. In contrast, pupil dilation was larger on switch than stay trials. Together, these findings dissociate two components of confirmation bias: attentional sampling biases evidence in favor of the self, whereas pupil-linked arousal indexes the effort required to revise one’s mind.", "SubmissionID": 368},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Cognition, Decision Making, and Confidence", "Title": "Explicit expectations influence the content of false percepts", "Author": "Gemma Donnelly", "CoAuthors": "Joost Haarsma, Peter Kok", "Authors": [{"name":"Gemma Donnelly","aff":[1]},{"name":"Joost Haarsma","aff":[2]},{"name":"Peter Kok","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["University College London (UK)","Maastricht University (NL)"], "Abstract": "False percepts are proposed to arise from overly strong top-down expectations (Corlett et al., 2019). However, a recent study (Haarsma et al., 2023) found that implicit expectations did not influence the contents of false percepts, and that expectations and false percepts activated different layers of early visual cortex, casting doubt on the hypothesis that expectations can lead to false percepts (Schmack et al., 2021). A potential reconciliation is that the implicit expectations in Haarsma et al. may not have been strong enough to cause false percepts, but stronger expectations can.\\n\\nThe current study used explicit expectation cues to strengthen top-down expectations. Following a behavioural training session to explicitly learn the association between two cues and orthogonal gratings, participants (N=32) were scanned using 7T fMRI and presented with a cue (tone) followed by either a low contrast (predicted) grating embedded in visual noise (50% of trials), or with noise only (50% of trials). The task involved reporting the grating orientation and confidence in having seen a grating.\\n\\nPerformance on grating present trials was significantly above chance and higher when confidence was high (M=83%) compared to low (M=60%). When no grating was presented, participants reported confidently seeing a grating on 56% of trials, suggesting false percepts did occur. Participants reported the expected (cue predicted) orientation in 55% of grating absent trials. This cue-driven effect was strongest when confidence was high (M=58%) compared to low (M= 49%).\\n\\nThese results suggest that explicit expectations, unlike implicit expectations, can influence the contents of false percepts. Future investigations will focus on the neural correlates of this phenomenon.", "SubmissionID": 372},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Multisensory and Other Senses", "Title": "Remapping peripersonal space through tool-based and movement training in virtual reality", "Author": "Christodoula Gavriel", "CoAuthors": "Irene Petrizzo, Ali Najm, Savvas Avraam, Marios Avraamides, Kyriaki Mikellidou", "Authors": [{"name":"Christodoula Gavriel","aff":[1]},{"name":"Irene Petrizzo","aff":[2]},{"name":"Ali Najm","aff":[3]},{"name":"Savvas Avraam","aff":[3]},{"name":"Marios Avraamides","aff":[3]},{"name":"Kyriaki Mikellidou","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Department of Psychology, University of Cyprus (CY)","Center for Mind/Brain Sciences, University of Trento (IT)","CYENS Centre of Excellence (CY)"], "Abstract": "Background: Peripersonal space (PPS) refers to the multisensory representation of the space immediately surrounding the body and is critical for rapid defensive and goal-directed actions. PPS is a plastic that can expand after tool use. This study examined whether PPS remapping depends specifically on goal-directed tool-based pulling actions, defined as pulling objects toward the body using a tool, or whether it can also be induced by general motor activity in virtual reality (VR).\\n\\nMethods: Thirty-four healthy adults (17 women) completed a fully within-subjects 3 × 2 design with Training Condition (Tool-Based Pulling Training, Torso Movement, Whole-Body Movement) and Time (Pre, Post). PPS was assessed using a visuo-tactile detection task in immersive VR. Reaction times to tactile stimuli at five distances were fitted with sigmoidal functions, and the inflection point (x₀) indexed the PPS boundary. Bootstrap resampling (12,000 iterations) was used to estimate boundary distributions and to assess nonparametric significance.\\n\\nFindings: Tool-based pulling training significantly expanded PPS (Pre: 1.01 m Post: 1.45 m p = .021). Torso movement (1.28 m p = .180) and whole-body movement (1.31 m p = .160) showed non-significant increases. Model fits were strong across conditions (R² = .96–.99), indicating robust boundary estimation.\\n\\nDiscussion: Goal-directed tool-based pulling actions selectively expanded PPS, whereas movement alone was insufficient. These findings suggest that functional actions bringing objects toward the body drive spatial remapping. VR-based tool-based pulling training may offer novel applications for enhancing near-body awareness and rapid responses in health, rehabilitation, and sport performance contexts.", "SubmissionID": 13},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Multisensory and Other Senses", "Title": "Relationship between Floriography and Flower’s Name, Image and Aroma", "Author": "Akihisa	Takemura", "CoAuthors": "Tenta Yamanaka", "Authors": [{"name":"Akihisa	Takemura","aff":[1]},{"name":"Tenta Yamanaka","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Kansai University (JP)"], "Abstract": "Recently, with the spread of flower aroma-based branding in companies, hotels, and stores, there is increasing potential for integrating floriography (the language of flowers) alongside visual and olfactory decorations. Therefore a sensory evaluation experiment was conducted to clarify the relationship between the impression received from the name, image, and aroma of a flower and its symbolism. Sixteen students (fourteen males, two females mean age 21.8 years) were presented with the names, images, and aromas of twenty selected flowers. They answered free-response first impression, twenty five impression items related to floriography and questions regarding flower recognition. The percentages of persons who had seen the flower before and knew its name were significantly different among flowers in their name and image, but almost zero for all flowers in their aroma. The impression tended to be strongly influenced by this recognition rate. For example, for rose, which had high recognition rates for both name and image, the impressions for the name and image were similar, but the impression for aroma differed significantly from the other two, possibly due to the low recognition rate for aroma. Three impression items highly related to the flower symbolism were extracted for each flower, and their mean evaluation was compared to the average evaluation for all flowers. The origins of floriography generally fall into two categories: those based on the flower's appearance or aroma, and those based on myths or anecdotes. In the former case, the mean evaluation was often closer to the flower symbolism. This suggests that when using flowers in architectural spaces, it’s necessary to pay attention to the origins of floriography. Moreover, it’s necessary to account for the generally low recognition of flower symbolism among the public.", "SubmissionID": 59},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Multisensory and Other Senses", "Title": "Shaping Tastes: Categorical and Graded Crossmodal Correspondences between Visual Geometry and Basic Tastes", "Author": "PI-CHUN HUANG", "CoAuthors": "Yi-Chuan Chen, Yi-Chun Hung", "Authors": [{"name":"PI-CHUN HUANG","aff":[1]},{"name":"Yi-Chuan Chen","aff":[2]},{"name":"Yi-Chun Hung","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["National Cheng Kung University (TW)","MacKay Medical University (TW)"], "Abstract": "Crossmodal correspondences between visual features and gustatory sensations often follow systematic mapping rules. This study investigated the representational structure, bidirectionality, and robustness of associations between three basic tastes (sweetness, sourness, and bitterness) and two fundamental visual dimensions: angularity (round vs. angular) and symmetry (symmetric vs. asymmetric). Across three experiments, we employed a combination of explicit taste-matching and shape-matching tasks and Implicit Association Tests (IAT) to examine sweet–sour, sweet–bitter, and sour–bitter contrasts. Our results reveal a significant dissociation in how these visual dimensions encode taste information. Specifically, taste–angularity correspondences exhibited a categorical structure, where sweetness was consistently mapped to roundness, while both sourness and bitterness were grouped with angularity. In contrast, taste–symmetry correspondences followed a graded continuum, with sweetness, bitterness, and sourness ordered progressively along the symmetry-asymmetry axis. Furthermore, while bidirectional mappings were observed across most contrasts in explicit tasks, only the sweet–sour correspondence remained robust in the implicit measure, suggesting a stronger association that operates at an earlier processing stage. These findings indicate that visual geometry maps non-visual sensory attributes through distinct mechanisms—categorical for curvature and graded for symmetry—which are modulated by task demands and specific taste contrasts. Our results provide new insights into the hierarchical nature of how the visual system extracts and organizes crossmodal information.", "SubmissionID": 46},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Multisensory and Other Senses", "Title": "Presentation duration and feature information influence tactile correspondence mechanism in ambiguous apparent motion", "Author": "Meike Charlotte Kriegeskorte", "CoAuthors": "Bettina Rolke, Elisabeth Hein", "Authors": [{"name":"Meike Charlotte Kriegeskorte","aff":[1]},{"name":"Bettina Rolke","aff":[1]},{"name":"Elisabeth Hein","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Tübingen (DE)"], "Abstract": "It is difficult to keep track of a moving object, because objects are not continuously visible and their trajectories often intersect. Despite this incomplete and ambiguous information, we must establish correspondence between the correct object instances to perceive an object as moving from one position to another. In everyday life, we mostly rely on visual information. Nevertheless, we perceive objects also with our other senses, such as audition and touch and we can establish correspondence based on tactile and auditory information. Harrar and Harris (2007) showed that tactile correspondence depends on spatiotemporal factors, in particular the time between stimulus presentations. They used the Ternus display, an ambiguous apparent motion display, in which a tactile stimulation can be perceived as either moving by one step to the position of a neighbouring stimulus or as moving across that stimulus to the position of a third stimulus. Which motion is perceived depends on how correspondence is established between the tactile stimuli. In vision and audition, correspondence is also influenced by other factors, e.g., the stimulus duration and the feature information, such as the object’s colour or the sound’s frequency. The aim of this study was to investigate whether these factors are also important for tactile correspondence. We used a tactile Ternus display and manipulated the duration of the Ternus elements and the tactile appearance of the stimulus. Our results showed that both stimulus duration as well as feature information influence the tactile apparent-motion percept. Thus, correspondence in all three modalities is influenced by the same factors. This suggests that they may all rely on a similar mechanism to connect objects across space and time.\\n\\nHarrar, V., & Harris, L. R. (2007). Multimodal Ternus: Visual, Tactile, and Visuo - Tactile Grouping in Apparent Motion. Perception, 36(10), 1455–1464. https://doi.org/10.1068/p5844", "SubmissionID": 62},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Multisensory and Other Senses", "Title": "An Ecological Model of Crossmodal Correspondences between Colour and Pitch", "Author": "Yihui Lu", "CoAuthors": "Gesine Blank, Nedim Goktepe, Grace O’Farrell, Daniel Oberfeld-Twistel, Christoph Witzel", "Authors": [{"name":"Yihui Lu","aff":[1]},{"name":"Gesine Blank","aff":[2]},{"name":"Nedim Goktepe","aff":[3]},{"name":"Grace O’Farrell","aff":[1]},{"name":"Daniel Oberfeld-Twistel","aff":[4]},{"name":"Christoph Witzel","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["School of Psychology, University of Southampton (UK)","Department of Psychology, Justus-Liebig-Universität (DE)","Leibniz Institute for New Materials (DE)","Department of Psychology, Johannes Gutenberg-Universität Mainz (DE)"], "Abstract": "Human senses provide fundamentally different types of information yet they are seamlessly integrated in a coherent multisensory experience that constitutes our perceived reality and helps us make sense of our environment. Crossmodal correspondences – perceived matches between signals from two different senses – allow access to multisensory experience by revealing how perceptual features are organised in the perceiver’s mind. In this study, we investigated the ecological origin of crossmodal correspondences, according to which such correspondences result from cumulative multisensory experience with the objects and materials in our perceptual environment. To test this account, we developed a quantitative ecological model that predicts colour-pitch correspondences by integrating ecological associations (objects and other phenomena) with each modality. For example, the model predicts the correspondence between blue and low pitch because both are associated with the sea and the sky. We tested the model in two experiments with different colour sets (24 colours varying in lightness, saturation and hue 30 colours varying only in hue). Pitch was controlled by using 20 loudness-matched pure tones with Mel-scaled frequencies. Ecological associations were elicited from participants in response to the colours, and their associations with colour and pitch were measured. The model combined these measures to computationally predict independently measured colour-pitch associations. The ecological model successfully predicted colour–pitch correspondences in both experiments, explaining 70–80% of the variance, and approaching the estimated noise ceiling. Results were robust across different measures of ecological associations and alternative mathematical formulations of the model. The success of the ecological model shows that perceivers combine sensory features across modalities, such as colour and sound, in ways that match their concepts of environmental phenomena, such as sea, sky, blood, and plants. More generally, these findings clarify how our multisensory experience is shaped by the interpretation of meaningful, functionally relevant phenomena in our environment.", "SubmissionID": 87},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Multisensory and Other Senses", "Title": "Beyond Audiovisual Integration: Phonemic Features and Visual Articulatory Information Shape the McGurk Effect", "Author": "Yi-Chuan Chen", "CoAuthors": "Li-Li Yeh", "Authors": [{"name":"Yi-Chuan Chen","aff":[1]},{"name":"Li-Li Yeh","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["MacKay Medical University (TW)"], "Abstract": "The McGurk effect is a speech illusion in which incongruent visual oral movements (e.g., /ga/) and auditory input (e.g., /ba/) are integrated to form a new percept (e.g., /da/). We examined whether two phonemic features that are prominent in Mandarin Chinese but not in English—aspiration and lexical tone—modulate the McGurk effect. Aspirated (/ph/) and unaspirated (/p/) consonants are both voiceless, with longer voice onset time for the former. Mandarin lexical tones are defined by fundamental frequency (F0) contours—Tone 1 (flat), Tone 2 (rising), Tone 3 (falling-rising), and Tone 4 (falling)—and are produced through laryngeal activity accompanied by subtle yet observable neck movements. In Experiment 1, aspirated (/pha/) and unaspirated (/pa/) syllables were paired with congruent (/pha/ or /pa/) or incongruent (/kha/ or /ka/) visual articulations, or else with a static face as an auditory-only control. In Experiment 2, the syllable /pa/ produced with four lexical tones was tested under the same three conditions. Participants judged whether the perceived speech matched a predesignated target syllable (i.e., /pha/ or /pa/ with a given tone). The McGurk effect was quantified by reduced accuracy in the incongruent relative to the congruent condition. Results showed that the McGurk effect was larger for the aspirated than the unaspirated consonant, and larger for Tone 1 than Tone 2. These differences could not be merely explained by performance in the auditory-only control. Our results demonstrate that the McGurk effect was susceptible to auditory phonemic features and visual movement beyond the oral area, including laryngeal-related movements in the neck. These findings suggest that the McGurk effect reflects the integration of phonetic gestures across articulatory domains, rather than a simple combination of auditory and visual signals, consistent with the view that speech perception is grounded in phonetic–gestural representations.", "SubmissionID": 133},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Multisensory and Other Senses", "Title": "Development of haptic cross-section recognition in school-aged children", "Author": "Margherita Di Gaudio", "CoAuthors": "Silvia Zanchi, Monica Gori", "Authors": [{"name":"Margherita Di Gaudio","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Silvia Zanchi","aff":[1]},{"name":"Monica Gori","aff":[1,3]}], "Affiliations": ["Italian Institute of Technology (IT)","University of Genoa (IT)","IHMC (US)"], "Abstract": "Cross-sectioning requires inferring the two-dimensional shape produced by slicing a three-dimensional solid. This ability relies on spatial representation, manipulation of 3D and 2D forms, and extraction of geometric structure. Developmental evidence suggests these skills mature during childhood. We investigated whether haptic recognition of solids’ cross-sections, assessed with a haptic version of the Santa Barbara Solids Test, improves across development and whether shape complexity and cut type affect performance. Because this task is typically studied visually, we considered whether children’s haptic performance might depend on haptic cues or abstract mental representations.\\n\\nWe tested 37 typically developing children aged 6–11 years (M = 8.22, SD = 1.29). Children haptically explored 3D-printed solids and selected a cross-section among four 3D-printed options. Children in first and second grade completed 12 trials, whereas those in third and fourth grade completed 14 trials.\\n\\nAccuracy (correct/incorrect) was analysed with a binomial generalized linear mixed-effects model including age, shape, and cut as predictors, and subject as random intercept. Age, χ²(1) = 7.55, p = .006, and cut, χ²(1) = 16.68, p < .001, significantly predicted performance. Accuracy increased with age and was lower for diagonal than orthogonal cuts. The significant Age × Cut interaction, χ²(1) = 7.97, p = .005, indicates that age-related improvement was more pronounced for orthogonal than diagonal cuts. Shape was not significant, χ²(2) = 3.84, p = .147.\\n\\nResults suggest that haptic cross-section recognition improves with age, and diagonal cuts impose a greater processing cost than orthogonal cuts. Younger children showed a more diffuse error pattern, whereas older children’s errors appeared more concentrated in shape-cut configurations. This may reflect developmental differences in abstraction and spatial transformation. Future work will examine systematic error patterns and extend the paradigm to children with severe visual impairment feasibility testing has begun in one participant.", "SubmissionID": 136},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Multisensory and Other Senses", "Title": "Conceptual colour understanding in the blind", "Author": "Nina Vreugdenhil", "CoAuthors": "Edward H.F. De Haan, Nicholas Root, Laura L. Becerra, William Brown, Kabir Kapadia, Darren J. Lipomi, Romke Rouw", "Authors": [{"name":"Nina Vreugdenhil","aff":[1]},{"name":"Edward H.F. De Haan","aff":[1,2,3,4]},{"name":"Nicholas Root","aff":[1]},{"name":"Laura L. Becerra","aff":[5]},{"name":"William Brown","aff":[6]},{"name":"Kabir Kapadia","aff":[6]},{"name":"Darren J. Lipomi","aff":[6]},{"name":"Romke Rouw","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Amsterdam (NL)","Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour (NL)","Oxford University (UK)","University of Nottingham (UK)","University of California San Diego (US)","University of Rochester (US)"], "Abstract": "Crossmodal correspondences (CMCs) are associations between different sensory modalities. Although CMCs have been studied extensively, research has predominantly focused on the audiovisual domain, for example, the Bouba-Kiki effect, in which a round shape is associated with Bouba and a spiky shape with Kiki. CMCs are well-studied in the visual modality, but CMCs involving tactile surface properties (e.g.roughness, softness) have received relatively little attention. Here, we study tactile-to-colour crossmodal correspondences. \\n\\nImproved understanding of tactile-to-colour correspondences is not only of interest for a fundamentally improved understanding of CMCs, across diverse modalities. It may also provide insight into how colour is represented in the absence of vision, and thus offer a pathway for translating colour to blind individuals, who already rely heavily on touch. \\n\\nIn this study, we conducted several experiments to explore the underlying mechanisms of touch-colour associations and to provide a foundation for translating colour to blind participants.  \\n\\nFirst, a questionnaire on colour experience and CMCs was completed by 45 visually impaired participants (18 totally blind, 13 with very low vision <5%, 14 partially sighted). Totally blind participants still reported CMC colour associations, suggesting they maintain colour representations, whether acquired through prior visual experience or through language and learned representations.  \\n\\nSecond, we compare visually impaired and sighted participants on behavioural measures of touch-colour association tasks and haptic sensitivity tasks, to assess how visual experience affects touch-colour correspondences.  \\n\\nFinally, we will present preliminary fMRI findings on haptic processing in blind individuals, providing insight into potential functional reorganization of neural representations underlying haptic perception in the absence of visual experience.  \\n\\nTogether, these studies examine the theoretical framework of touch-to-vision associations and explore a practical application of translating colour for blind individuals. Moreover, the results provide further insights into how visual experience influences haptic processing.", "SubmissionID": 157},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Multisensory and Other Senses", "Title": "The effect of auditory cue on visual search processing: the relation between the pip-and-pop effect and audiovisual integration capacity", "Author": "Xiaoyu Tang", "CoAuthors": "Rong Zhang", "Authors": [{"name":"Xiaoyu Tang","aff":[1]},{"name":"Rong Zhang","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Liaoning Normal University (CN)"], "Abstract": "The pip-and-pop effect describes the phenomenon wherein a nonspatial auditory signal significantly enhances visual search efficiency for a single target in a dynamic array, which may depend on audiovisual integration. However, how individual differences in audiovisual integration capacity modulate this effect remains unclear. The present study provides the first systematic examination of the relation between audiovisual integration capacity and the pip-and-pop effect across two experiments. In Experiment 1, we replicated the classic pip-and-pop effect using a dynamic single-target visual search task and found that individual audiovisual integration capacity significantly and positively predicted search performance specifically when auditory cues were present, but not in the no-sound condition. This dissociation suggests that audiovisual integration capacity selectively facilitates behavioral performance when auditory information is available to guide search. In Experiment 2, we extended this investigation to a dynamic dual-target visual search task. Although auditory cues enhanced dual-target identification accuracy overall, audiovisual integration capacity predicted behavioral performance in both the with-sound and no-sound conditions under high task load, reflecting shared demands on multiple-object tracking and attentional resources. Across both experiments, audiovisual integration capacity was not significantly correlated with the difference-based pip-and-pop benefit score, highlighting the multifaceted nature of the pip-and-pop effect, which likely involves additional mechanisms beyond audiovisual integration alone. These findings demonstrate that individual differences in audiovisual integration capacity may serve as an important modulating factor in the pip-and-pop effect, with its expression critically dependent on task load and the specific cognitive demands of the search context.", "SubmissionID": 197},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Multisensory and Other Senses", "Title": "Intercepting accelerating targets with the help of sound", "Author": "Eli Brenner", "CoAuthors": "Jeroen BJ Smeets", "Authors": [{"name":"Eli Brenner","aff":[1]},{"name":"Jeroen BJ Smeets","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam (NL)"], "Abstract": "We know that people are very poor at visually judging acceleration, and consequently do not consider visual estimates of acceleration when intercepting moving targets. As a result, their interceptive movements end up slightly behind accelerating targets and ahead of decelerating ones. If the target repeatedly accelerates in the same manner, people quickly learn to compensate for such errors. But if the acceleration varies from trial to trial, they keep making systematic errors. We have previously shown that providing information about the acceleration in the form of different background images (ice for a constant velocity sand for strong deceleration) does not help cope with acceleration. Here we examined whether an accompanying sound rather than a background image does help. We interleaved accelerating targets that were accompanied by a sound that increased in both volume and frequency with decelerating targets that were accompanied by a sound that decreased in volume and frequency. Adding such sounds reduced the systematic errors associated with ignoring acceleration considerably. The sounds did not provide actual information about the acceleration. Neither did the sounds influence the time taken to perform the interceptive movements. Presumably participants learnt to aim further ahead of the moving target when they heard the sound with increasing volume and frequency than when they heard the other sound.", "SubmissionID": 208},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Multisensory and Other Senses", "Title": "From Eye Movements to Auditory Pitch Perception: Saccades Exert a Weaker Influence than Keypresses on Perceived Self-generated Tones", "Author": "Lilian Nguyen", "CoAuthors": "Adrien Paire, Dorine Vergilino-Perez, Céline Paeye", "Authors": [{"name":"Lilian Nguyen","aff":[1]},{"name":"Adrien Paire","aff":[1]},{"name":"Dorine Vergilino-Perez","aff":[1]},{"name":"Céline Paeye","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Vision Action Cognition (FR)"], "Abstract": "Sensory attenuation refers to reduced neural and perceptual responses to self-generated tones compared to tones triggered externally, due to predictive mechanisms.  \\n\\nOur previous study showed that the strength of action-outcome coupling (SAOC) influences the perception of sound loudness. Indeed, we observed that the perceived intensity of tones triggered by keypresses (strong coupling) was attenuated, in contrast to tones triggered by ocular saccades (weak coupling).\\n\\nBuilding on this earlier study, we investigated the influence of SAOC on perceptual attenuation for pitch. To date, no behavioral study has demonstrated any sensory attenuation effect regarding pitch perception, although it has been suggested that attenuation may manifest in this case as a change in the ability to perceive pitch differences. \\n\\nA total of 140 participants were divided into three groups. They performed a pitch discrimination task in which test tones of varying frequency were triggered either by a saccade, a keypress, or played after a cue (no action required, or “passive” group). Test tones were presented 150 ms or 1500 ms after the action (or cue).  \\n\\nResults revealed lower discrimination sensitivity in the keypress group compared to the passive group (Cohen's d = 0.66). In contrast, no significant difference was found between the saccade and passive groups. Also, in the keypress group only, we observed a small effect of delay (Cohen's d = 0.14), with reduced sensitivity at the shorter interval. \\n\\nThis reduced perceptual sensitivity for keypress-triggered tones may reflect sensory attenuation. Importantly, the absence of a significant difference between the saccade and passive groups, together with the small size of the delay effect, suggests that this reduction in sensitivity cannot be explained by dual-task interference alone. \\n\\nThese results are consistent with the hybrid model of Dogge et al. (2019), which posits that different predictive mechanisms underlie sensory attenuation depending on the SAOC.", "SubmissionID": 233},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Perceptual Learning and Memory", "Title": "Coarse (but Not Fine) Top-Down Control Over Consciousness: Evidence From VWM-Driven Conscious Access", "Author": "Yiyang Xu", "CoAuthors": "Mowei Shen, Yingtao Fu, Hui Chen", "Authors": [{"name":"Yiyang Xu","aff":[1]},{"name":"Mowei Shen","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Yingtao Fu","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Hui Chen","aff":[1,2,3]}], "Affiliations": ["Department of Psychology and Behavioral Sciences, Zhejiang University (CN)","Zhejiang Key Laboratory of Neurocognitive Development and Mental Health, Zhejiang University (CN)","The State Key Lab of Brain-Machine Intelligence, Zhejiang University (CN)"], "Abstract": "Human visual consciousness is inherently limited, such that only a fraction of incoming information reaches awareness at any given moment. Visual working memory (VWM), the core system responsible for maintaining goal-relevant information, has been identified as a key driver of this prioritization. Specifically, stimuli that match the contents of VWM gain access to awareness more rapidly when initially suppressed from consciousness. However, it remains unclear at which representational level—coarse or fine—this top-down modulation operates. The present study addresses this question through a series of experiments that combine a VWM task with the breaking Continuous Flash Suppression (b-CFS) paradigm, in which high-contrast dynamic masks suppress target stimuli from awareness. Experiments 1a and 1b compared coarse (color) and fine (gap orientation) features within the same Landolt ring stimuli, revealing that only color matching in VWM facilitated conscious access. Experiments 2a and 2b extended this dissociation to the shape dimension, demonstrating facilitation for simple shapes (coarse) but not for complex polygons (fine). Experiments 3a and 3b further showed that VWM-driven conscious access operates at a categorical level of color representation and is neither enhanced by nor sensitive to precise color information. Finally, Experiments 4 and 5 employed global–local stimuli to identify the locus of this constraint. Experiment 4 showed that fine-level information under CFS suppression is resistant to top-down modulation, whereas Experiments 5a and 5b revealed that fine-level representations maintained in VWM are also ineffective as top-down signals. Taken together, these findings suggest that VWM facilitates conscious access in a coarse, but not fine-grained, manner. This constraint appears to arise from limitations in both unconscious visual processing and the representation of fine-grained information in VWM.", "SubmissionID": 41},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Perceptual Learning and Memory", "Title": "Development of visual expertise in medical education", "Author": "Viljami	Salmela", "CoAuthors": "Salla Skön, Ilona Södervik, Alexander Salava", "Authors": [{"name":"Viljami	Salmela","aff":[1]},{"name":"Salla Skön","aff":[1]},{"name":"Ilona Södervik","aff":[1]},{"name":"Alexander Salava","aff":[2]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Helsinki (FI)","Helsinki University Hospital (FI)"], "Abstract": "Visual reasoning skills are critical across medical specialties. Prior work shows experts achieve higher diagnostic accuracy with fewer saccades and longer fixations than novices. We examined how medical students learn to identify skin conditions during a dermatology course and compared their performance with experts, with a focus on diagnosis-specific differences. Fifth-year medical students (N=394) completed an online image-identification task in three sessions: before, during, and after the course. In a laboratory study, experts (N=7) performed the same task once with eye-tracking, and students (N=13) completed it twice (pre/post-course). On each trial, participants saw a written diagnosis and eight images and selected the matching image, then rated confidence. Each session included 47 diagnoses (most common in Finland) presented twice. The target image was randomly chosen from 15–30 exemplars.  Across sessions, students’ accuracy rose from 68% to 86%, decision times fell from 9.7 to 8.7 s, and confidence (5-point Likert) increased from 2.9 to 3.8. Substantial differences emerged across diagnoses: for the 12 easiest conditions, accuracy exceeded 90% pre-course for the 10 most difficult, accuracy remained below 75% post-course. Based on item characteristic curves, diagnoses were clustered into eight categories, revealing category-specific learning patterns. The lab study replicated the main behavioural findings. Despite improvements, students (62% to 82% 9.7 to 8.1 s) did not reach expert performance (97% correct, 6.4 s). Students’ average number of fixations decreased from 34 to 21, matching experts. Experts’ mean fixation duration was 217 ms contrary to expectations, students’ fixation duration were longer and increased from 220 to 249 ms. Eye-tracking metrics varied less across diagnoses than did behavioural performance. These results indicate that in dermatology, visual expertise development is strongly diagnosis-dependent and likely reflects both perceptual and rule-based learning. Results suggest teaching resources should be concentrated on diagnoses that remain difficult to learn. ", "SubmissionID": 69},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Perceptual Learning and Memory", "Title": "Visuomotor learning enhances visual acuity and contrast sensitivity", "Author": "Hossein Abbasi", "CoAuthors": "Brigitte Röder", "Authors": [{"name":"Hossein Abbasi","aff":[1]},{"name":"Brigitte Röder","aff":[1,2]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Hamburg (DE)","LV Prasad Eye Institute (IN)"], "Abstract": "Visual perceptual learning (VPL) has been shown to improve contrast perception. Neural responses in rodents’ primary visual cortex (V1) have been shown to exhibit greater enhancement when animals perform VPL while running than in a stationary state, while results in primates are less clear. The present study examined which visual functions benefit from adding locomotion to a VPL task. Participants were assigned to one of three groups (control [n = 23], visual-manual training group [n = 20], and visuomotor training group [n = 22]). Participants in the two training groups completed assessment sessions before, immediately after, and one month after five sessions of VPL. The visuomotor group performed the training by using a Wobble board to select the relevant visual stimulus the visual-manual group responded with a mouse while sitting at a table. Participants of the control group did not participate in any training sessions and completed only three assessment sessions. During assessment sessions, Landolt-C visual acuity, Vernier acuity, contrast sensitivity function (CSF), and surround modulation were measured. In the VPL task, the visual target was defined as a uniquely oriented Gabor stimulus among other Gabor stimulus distractors. All stimuli were presented at the individual cut-off spatial frequency, with their contrast adjusted based on participants’ performance. The individual cut-off spatial frequency was defined as the spatial frequency corresponding to 50% contrast, extracted from the CSF curve. The visuomotor group showed larger improvements in Landolt-C visual acuity, Vernier acuity, and surround suppression compared to the other groups. Notably, these group differences increased after one month. Additionally, contrast sensitivity significantly improved immediately after visuomotor training. The present findings suggest that adding locomotion to a VPL task may enhance visual learning. As has been demonstrated for motor learning, visuomotor training seems to involve longer consolidation.", "SubmissionID": 42},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Perceptual Learning and Memory", "Title": "Facilitated but less selective visual cortical plasticity in children than in adults revealed by task-irrelevant perceptual learning", "Author": "Dominik Aschenbrenner", "CoAuthors": "Zhiyan Wang, Sebastian Frank", "Authors": [{"name":"Dominik Aschenbrenner","aff":[1]},{"name":"Zhiyan Wang","aff":[1]},{"name":"Sebastian Frank","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Universität Regensburg (DE)"], "Abstract": "Task-irrelevant visual perceptual learning (TIVPL) is a form of visual cortical plasticity characterized by enhanced detection sensitivity for features repeatedly exposed during the performance of another task. Theories of TIVPL suggest that it is tightly constrained by the contingency of internal reinforcement signals elicited by important events in the performed task, such as detecting a target among distractors. However, compared with adults, previous studies found evidence that TIVPL is less selective in children, suggesting that visual cortical plasticity may be subject to weaker constraints during childhood. Here, we investigated this hypothesis in children (7-12 years old) and college-age adults using psychophysics and functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS). Over the course of three sessions on separate days, participants (fifteen per age group) practiced a rapid-serial-visual-presentation (RSVP) task at central fixation in which they detected the presence or absence of target images within a stream of distractor images. Together with the RSVP, task-irrelevant coherent motion directions were exposed in the visual surroundings. One direction was predominantly (66% probability) exposed in target-present RSVP-trials (paired direction). Another direction was predominantly (66% probability) exposed in target-absent RSVP-trials (unpaired direction). While performing the task, fNIRS (NIRx Medical Technologies) was recorded over occipital areas. Prior to and following the exposure period, detection performance for each motion direction was assessed. Children enhanced detection performance for paired and unpaired directions to a similar extent, whereas the enhancement was greater for the paired than the unpaired direction in adults. fNIRS recordings showed that activity (corresponding to oxygenated hemoglobin) in occipital areas was comparable between paired and unpaired directions in children but greater for paired than unpaired directions in adults. This suggests that TIVPL is less tightly constrained by the contingency of internal reinforcement signals in children than in adults, consistent with facilitated, yet less selective, visual cortical plasticity during childhood.", "SubmissionID": 57},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Perceptual Learning and Memory", "Title": "Not How Much You Remember, but How You Use It: Visual Working Memory Capacity as Strategic Stabilization", "Author": "xutao zheng", "CoAuthors": "Chenxiao Guan, Jie He, Meng Zhang, Mowei Shen, Jifan Zhou", "Authors": [{"name":"xutao zheng","aff":[1]},{"name":"Chenxiao Guan","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Jie He","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Meng Zhang","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Mowei Shen","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Jifan Zhou","aff":[1,2]}], "Affiliations": ["Department of Psychology and Behavioral Sciences, Zhejiang University (CN)","Zhejiang Key Laboratory of Neurocognitive Development and Mental Health, Zhejiang University (CN)"], "Abstract": "Visual working memory (VWM) capacity is traditionally conceptualized as a limit on how much information can be maintained. However, increasing evidence links VWM capacity to attentional control and the regulation of cognitive resources. In natural tasks, memory use is not fixed but voluntarily determined, raising a critical question: how are individual differences in VWM capacity expressed when memory use is flexible?\\n\\nWe addressed this question using a copying task that allows participants to trade off internal memory and external sampling. Across two experiments (N = 120), participants freely decided how many items to encode during each sampling episode. VWM capacity was measured independently using a visual change detection task. We manipulated task structure in two ways: sampling cost, which alters the incentive to rely on memory, and time pressure, which constrains the opportunity to adjust strategies.\\n\\nIncreasing sampling cost reliably led participants to encode more items per sampling episode, replicating adaptive trade-offs between memory and resampling. However, this manipulation did not reveal any reliable relationship between VWM capacity and memory usage. In contrast, imposing time pressure produced robust capacity-related effects. Higher-capacity individuals showed more concentrated and less variable memory deployment across sampling episodes, accompanied by a reduction in mean usage.\\n\\nThese findings suggest that VWM capacity in natural tasks is not primarily expressed as greater memory quantity. Instead, under constraint, capacity differences emerge in the stability of resource allocation. This dissociation highlights the importance of task structure in revealing individual differences and supports the view that VWM capacity reflects strategic control over memory use rather than storage limits alone.", "SubmissionID": 103},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Perceptual Learning and Memory", "Title": "Transient downregulation of excitatory activity facilitates skill learning in older adults", "Author": "Sebastian Frank", "CoAuthors": "Markus Becker, Ricarda Jacob, Antonia Wittmann, Ulrike Frank, Savanna Babu, Zhiyan Wang", "Authors": [{"name":"Sebastian Frank","aff":[1]},{"name":"Markus Becker","aff":[1]},{"name":"Ricarda Jacob","aff":[1]},{"name":"Antonia Wittmann","aff":[1]},{"name":"Ulrike Frank","aff":[1]},{"name":"Savanna Babu","aff":[1]},{"name":"Zhiyan Wang","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Regensburg (DE)"], "Abstract": "Previous studies have shown that the ability to acquire new skills is preserved into older age, suggesting that Hebbian-like synaptic plasticity in sensory-motor areas remains intact. At the same time, there are intrinsic biological changes in the aging brain, including an increase in neural activity, which constrain transient glutamatergic signaling required to induce synaptic plasticity. Here, we investigated whether older adults engage neuronal mechanisms that transiently regulate levels of excitatory activity in early sensory areas, thereby enabling the induction of synaptic plasticity. Participants (60 – 79 years old, n = 20) trained on a visual orientation detection task leading to visual perceptual learning (VPL), a type of visual skill learning. The concentration of glutamate, a major excitatory neurotransmitter, was measured in a volume-of-interest in the occipital lobes (primarily consisting of early visual areas V1 and V2) with functional magnetic resonance spectroscopy (fMRS) before, during and after training. The results showed that training enhanced detection performance for the trained orientation, consistent with VPL, whereas no improvement was observed for an untrained control orientation. Glutamate concentration decreased within an interval of twenty minutes after the end of training relative to the pretraining concentration. A mediation analysis showed that this reduction of glutamate mediated the impact of pretraining glutamate levels on the formation of VPL. In contrast, a control group of young adults (18 – 30 years old, n = 20) increased glutamate concentration associated with VPL over the same posttraining interval. These results suggest that transient downregulation of excitatory activity in early sensory areas facilitates the induction of synaptic plasticity and supports skill learning in older adults.", "SubmissionID": 106},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Perceptual Learning and Memory", "Title": "The electrophysiology of iconic memory: Evidence from a partial report task", "Author": "Davide Bonfanti", "CoAuthors": "Sonia Mele, Elena Bertacco, Chiara Mazzi, Silvia Savazzi", "Authors": [{"name":"Davide Bonfanti","aff":[1]},{"name":"Sonia Mele","aff":[1]},{"name":"Elena Bertacco","aff":[1]},{"name":"Chiara Mazzi","aff":[1]},{"name":"Silvia Savazzi","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Verona (IT)"], "Abstract": "Despite extensive research, a thorough characterisation of the electrophysiological mechanisms underlying iconic memory is still missing. The aim of this study, therefore, was to exploit a partial report paradigm to disentangle neural activity associated with stimulus perception and icon formation and maintenance from that associated with post-perceptual processes. A total of 26 participants took part in the study. We recorded EEG while they performed a partial report task. They were shown circular arrays composed of six letters and lasting 100 ms. Afterward, an acoustic cue informed the participant on which side of the stimulus to report. The majority of the electrophysiological differences occurred in the time window between 850 and 1100 ms and consisted of a positive deflection over parieto-occipital electrodes ipsilateral to the side to report. We also performed a linear regression between participants’ accuracy and components’ amplitude, finding a positive relationship between accuracy and P1, and negative relationships between accuracy and P3, a component peaking at ~730 ms that we termed Visual Code Reactivation (VCR), and another component peaking at ~1060 ms that we termed Task-dependent Information Filtering (TIF). We also detected a negative correlation between the number of intrusions and TIF amplitude. Our results shed light on the distinct processes involved in iconic memory, suggesting the distinction between processes responsible for encoding and maintaining the neural trace of the visual stimulus and higher-order, task-related functions devoted to selecting an information subset for conscious report. In this regard, the TIF component could represent a filtering mechanism, preventing irrelevant information from being further processed. In conclusion, our results are the first detailed description of the electrophysiological processes sustaining iconic memory. They also have potential implications for the consciousness debate, particularly regarding the overflow argument, of which they could constitute an electrophysiological confirmation.", "SubmissionID": 117},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Perceptual Learning and Memory", "Title": "Outcome history shapes implicit perceptual learning without awareness of the eye of origin", "Author": "Tatia Buidze", "CoAuthors": "Xinye Wang, Ayelet Landau", "Authors": [{"name":"Tatia Buidze","aff":[1]},{"name":"Xinye Wang","aff":[1]},{"name":"Ayelet Landau","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London (UK)"], "Abstract": "Positive outcomes can shape visual processing for behaviourally relevant features such as locations, objects, or stimulus attributes. It remains unclear, however, whether such modulation can also arise when the source of those outcomes is not consciously accessible. To address this question, we employed a dichoptic visual detection task in which ongoing stimulation to both eyes was perceptually fused into a single centrally presented grating. Detection targets consisted of a brief Gaussian contrast decrement that appeared in one eye only, while target intensity was manipulated to estimate detection threshold. Crucially, although the target appeared in one eye, its eye of origin was not consciously accessible to participants. We first established baseline detection performance for each eye without eye-specific outcome differences. In a subsequent phase, we introduced a hidden eye-specific outcome structure: successful detections from one eye were followed by positive outcomes with high probability (100%), whereas successful detections from the other eye were followed by positive outcomes with low probability (20%). Because perceptual learning is strongly confounded by generic practice and baseline visual asymmetries, we analysed trial-by-trial responses using a continuous Generalised Linear Mixed Model to isolate outcome-related changes in performance. The model indicated greater learning-related improvement for the eye associated with the higher probability of a positive outcome, after controlling for baseline-dependent constraints, despite participants having no conscious awareness of the eye-specific contingency. These findings suggest that asymmetric feedback can modulate eye-specific perceptual learning. They are consistent with an implicit ocular prioritisation account, in which differential outcome history biases processing in eye-specific channels without requiring conscious or top-down attention. More broadly, the findings suggest that outcome-dependent learning may extend to early sensory stages where eye-specific information remains partially segregated.", "SubmissionID": 145},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Perceptual Learning and Memory", "Title": "Multidimensional Statistical Learning of Spatiotemporal Regularities", "Author": "Yuhao Tian", "CoAuthors": "Yi Jiang, Ying Wang", "Authors": [{"name":"Yuhao Tian","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Yi Jiang","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Ying Wang","aff":[1,2]}], "Affiliations": ["State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Science and Mental Health, Institute of Psychology, Chinese Academy of Sciences (CN)","Department of Psychology, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China (CN)"], "Abstract": "To navigate the visual environment, the human brain must extract regularities that span across space and time. While temporal and spatial regularities can be acquired in isolation via statistical learning (SL), the joint acquisition of multidimensional regularities remains poorly understood. Here, we present a novel and robust form of visual SL for spatiotemporal regularities. Across four experiments, participants spontaneously learned regularities defined by coincident binding of temporal order and spatial configuration in visual chunks, even when regularities were task-irrelevant and remained unnoticed. This learning effect demonstrated remarkable generalization across (i) distinct spatial structures, (ii) varied temporal parameters, (iii) different combinatorial units (pairs vs. triplets), and (iv) multiple behavioral measures, including explicit familiarity judgments and implicit change-detection tasks. We further examined the relationship between this multidimensional SL and unidimensional SL using correlation and principal component analyses. Converging evidence revealed both domain-general and domain-specific components, moderated by observers’ awareness levels as identified by assessment types and confidence ratings. Relatively implicit measures yielded dissociable or even antagonistic patterns between temporal and spatial learning, whereas relatively explicit measures captured a positive coupling among all unidimensional and multidimensional effects. Together, these findings demonstrate reliable acquisition of spatiotemporal regularities, which engages an awareness-dependent hierarchical mechanism for integrating visual information over the spatial and temporal domains.", "SubmissionID": 170},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Perceptual Learning and Memory", "Title": "Bias in plain sight: Eye markers of contextual effects in visual working memory", "Author": "Weronika Rozycka", "CoAuthors": "Andrey Chetverikov", "Authors": [{"name":"Weronika Rozycka","aff":[1]},{"name":"Andrey Chetverikov","aff":[2]}], "Affiliations": ["Emotion Cognition Lab, Faculty of Psychology, SWPS University in Katowice (PL)","University of Bergen, Faculty of Psychology, Department of Psychosocial Science (NO)"], "Abstract": "Visual working memory (VWM)—the ability to maintain and use visual information—is\\n\\ncrucial for many daily tasks, from navigation to grocery shopping. However, context can\\n\\nsignificantly affect our memories: the presence of similar items during memorization can\\n\\nnot only reduce the memory accuracy but also bias the recall. Here, we investigate the\\n\\ninformation-processing dynamics underlying these biases by examining eye movements\\n\\nand pupillary responses during the encoding and reporting of colors. Participants\\n\\nmemorized the colors of two squares, with similarity between their mean colors and color\\n\\nheterogeneity within each item manipulated across trials. They later reported the average\\n\\ncolor of each square using a color wheel. We first replicated the findings of Chetverikov and\\n\\nHansmann-Roth (2016), demonstrating that the relative noise distribution between the\\n\\nmemorized items influences the strength and direction of biases in line with the recently\\n\\nproposed Demixing Model. Preliminary results further suggest that eye movements and\\n\\npupil size during encoding predict memory accuracy and biases. Finally, analysis of the\\n\\nresponse phase indicated that participants' gaze is often drawn to non-targets near the end\\n\\nof the response, even when the behavioral responses are biased away from those non-\\n\\ntargets. This suggests that gaze position and pupil size provide a valuable source of\\n\\ninformation about internal dynamics of visual-information encoding and decision-making\\n\\nduring the response, potentially clarifying how observers differentiate signals\\n\\ncorresponding to different stimuli.", "SubmissionID": 237},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Perceptual Learning and Memory", "Title": "Visualizing Memory with AI: Generative Text-to-Image Models in Free Recall Tasks", "Author": "Petr-Jan Plos", "CoAuthors": "Wilma Bainbridge, Filip Dechterenko", "Authors": [{"name":"Petr-Jan Plos","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Wilma Bainbridge","aff":[3]},{"name":"Filip Dechterenko","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Institute of Psychology, Czech Academy of Sciences (CZ)","Department of Psychology, Faculty of Arts, Charles University (CZ)","Department of Psychology, University of Chicago (US)"], "Abstract": "Research on long-term visual memory has traditionally investigated the free recall of visual scenes through verbal descriptions. Bainbridge and colleagues (2019) later introduced drawing as a method of free recall however, the level of detail captured in such drawings remains uncertain due to differences in drawing ability. Building on this approach, the present study examined whether generative multimodal models (GMMs) could serve as an alternative tool for assessing scene memory. We employed a design similar to drawing-based recall research while possibly overcoming limitations in participants’ drawing skills.\\n\\nParticipants (N=52) first memorized 20 images from one of two scene categories (streets or rooms). The images were AI-generated, allowing us to create highly similar pairs depicting very similar scenes participants studied only one image from each pair. Then they completed a digit span task, followed by the free recall phase, consisting of recreating the previously viewed images using a text-to-image model (ChatGPT-4o). Afterwards, they completed a two-alternative forced-choice (2AFC) task with foils that were highly similar to the memorized images. To evaluate the generated outputs, independent raters (N=80) attempted to match each generated image to its original source image in an 8-alternative matching task, providing a measure of recognizability. We then analyzed the effects of textual properties of the conversation transcripts, such as frustration levels and the number of objects or words, on recognizability of the final generated image. The raters selected the correct image significantly more often than expected by chance (probability correct=53%, effect size h=0.91). In addition, respondents selected the target pair (target image or very close distractor) in 94% of cases. Textual properties were not significantly related to image recognizability. Overall, the findings suggest that GMMs may offer a high-fidelity alternative to traditional hand-drawn recall methods for studying long-term visual memory for scenes.", "SubmissionID": 239},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Perceptual Learning and Memory", "Title": "Differential Network Metrics as Predictors of Specificity and Transfer in Perceptual Learning", "Author": "LIN ZHONG", "CoAuthors": "Gong-Liang Zhang, Cong Yu", "Authors": [{"name":"LIN ZHONG","aff":[1]},{"name":"Gong-Liang Zhang","aff":[2]},{"name":"Cong Yu","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Department of Psychology and Behavioral Sciences, Zhejiang University (CN)","Department of Psychology, School of Education, Soochow University (CN)"], "Abstract": "Visual perceptual learning is characterized by specificity to trained conditions. Understanding\\n\\nthe mechanisms behind this specificity remains a fundamental topic in perceptual learning\\n\\nresearch. In a previous ERP study (Zhang-et-al., 2013), half the participants (n=14) in Vernier\\n\\nlearning exhibited location specificity (TI<0.5), while the other half demonstrated learning\\n\\ntransfer (TI>0.5) across the visual hemifield. Here, we examined small-world network metrics to\\n\\ncompare the changes in the topological properties of the whole-brain network between the\\n\\nspecificity and transfer groups.\\n\\nWe established functional connectivity between each pair of EEG channels by calculating the\\n\\nphase-locking value using a wavelet transform in the beta band. We then applied a threshold to\\n\\nobtain undirected binary small-world networks for each participant at trained and transfer\\n\\nlocations before and after training. From these networks, we calculated the clustering coefficient,\\n\\nindicating local interconnectedness, and the shortest path length, reflecting global information\\n\\nintegration.\\n\\nBefore training, both groups exhibited similar small-world properties, characterized by high\\n\\nclustering coefficients and short path lengths. After training, while both groups displayed similar\\n\\nthreshold reductions, the specificity group showed higher clustering coefficient (p=.003) and\\n\\nlonger path length (p<.001), whereas the network metrics of the transfer group remained\\n\\nunchanged (ps>.111). Additionally, when the transfer effects were tested at the untrained\\n\\nlocation, the specificity group demonstrated trends (ps<.007) in network metrics similar to those\\n\\nat the trained location, while the transfer group displayed higher clustering coefficient (p=.035)\\n\\nwith unchanged path length.\\n\\nWe conclude that whether learning is location-specific is pre-determined by training-induced\\n\\nchanges in network properties. While the transfer group maintained both local and global\\n\\nefficiencies, the specificity group exhibited over-optimized local efficiency at the expense of\\n\\nglobal efficiency, which likely hinders learning transfer. These results provide crucial insights\\n\\ninto the mechanisms of specificity and transfer in perceptual learning from the perspective of\\n\\nbrain network dynamics.", "SubmissionID": 293},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Colour and Brightness Perception", "Title": "The Well-Tempered Color Wheel: Toward a Unified Pedagogical Model for Additive and Subtractive Color Systems", "Author": "Oğuz Sağdıç", "CoAuthors": "", "Authors": [{"name":"Oğuz Sağdıç","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["TOBB ETU (TR)"], "Abstract": "**The Well-Tempered Color Wheel:\\n\\nToward a Unified Pedagogical Model for Additive and Subtractive Color Systems**\\n\\nTraditional color education relies heavily on historical color wheel models that inadequately reflect the perceptual and physical foundations of human color vision. In particular, the widely used twelve-hue red–yellow–blue color wheel conflates additive and subtractive color systems and misrepresents complementary color relationships. These inconsistencies contribute to persistent conceptual confusion, especially in contexts that require accurate reasoning across both digital and printed media.\\n\\nThis study introduces the Well-Tempered Color Wheel, a perceptually coherent model that unifies additive and subtractive colors within a single diagrammatic framework. The proposed model defines complementary color relationships through numerical inversion in red–green–blue space and aligns these relations with subtractive color behavior. Inspired by musical temperament systems, slight perceptual adjustments are introduced to achieve global symmetry, consistent color opponency, and pedagogical clarity.\\n\\nUnlike traditional color wheels, this model explicitly incorporates achromatic reference points—including black, white, and gray—in order to stabilize luminance and contrast relationships. This structure enables intuitive visualization of both light-based and pigment-based color mixing while preserving the instructional advantages of a twelve-hue format.\\n\\nThe Well-Tempered Color Wheel does not propose new perceptual mechanisms. Instead, it offers a representational correction that aligns commonly used educational and experimental color diagrams with established principles of color perception. By integrating additive and subtractive color logic within a unified perceptual framework, the model clarifies fundamental misconceptions regarding primaries, complements, and system boundaries.\\n\\nThis approach has direct implications for visual perception research, experimental stimulus design, and interdisciplinary color education. The proposed model supports more accurate reasoning about color contrast, complementarity, and inversion across media, providing a robust perceptual reference tool for both scientific and educational applications.", "SubmissionID": 12},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Colour and Brightness Perception", "Title": "Scotopic population receptive field properties throughout the visual hierarchy", "Author": "Deena Elul", "CoAuthors": "Ayelet McKyton, Netta Levin", "Authors": [{"name":"Deena Elul","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Ayelet McKyton","aff":[2]},{"name":"Netta Levin","aff":[2]}], "Affiliations": ["Edmond and Lily Safra Center for Brain Sciences, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem (IL)","Department of Neurology, Hadassah Medical Organization and Faculty of Medicine, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem (IL)"], "Abstract": "Scotopic vision has several low-level limitations relative to photopic vision, including reduced acuity and a foveal scotoma. High-level visual abilities such as reading and face recognition are retained, although the cortical mechanisms supporting this remain incompletely characterized. Here, we used population receptive field (pRF) modeling to examine cortical representations of the visual field under scotopic conditions, focusing on pRF eccentricity and size across the visual hierarchy.\\n\\nFourteen normally sighted subjects completed pRF mapping during fMRI scanning under photopic and scotopic conditions, using a stimulus that incorporated faces, houses, and letters to engage higher-level regions. A Gaussian model was fit to each voxel’s responses to estimate pRF size and position. Retinotopic areas (V1, V2d, V3d, V2v, V3v, hV4) were defined individually based on photopic pRF data, while category-selective regions (FFA, OFA, PPA, TOS, MT+) were defined using a photopic functional localizer.\\n\\nAs expected, fewer voxels responded to the pRF stimulus under scotopic than photopic conditions, and responsive voxels exhibited higher mean eccentricity. However, when restricting analysis to voxels responsive in both conditions, there were only limited differences in mean eccentricity or in the overall distribution across eccentricity bins. Additionally, pRF sizes were smaller under scotopic conditions in most regions (V1, V2d, V3d, V3v, hV4, PPA, TOS) at 5-8-deg eccentricity.\\n\\nThese findings indicate that pRF modeling with complex stimuli can effectively probe scotopic representations in high-level visual cortex. The shift towards peripheral processing under scotopic conditions appears to result at least partially from loss of the central visual field representation. Reduced pRF sizes under scotopic conditions may reflect either modeling artifacts or compensatory adaptations to low resolution in the rod system. Further work is needed to clarify these effects and extend them to additional visual regions.", "SubmissionID": 43},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Colour and Brightness Perception", "Title": "The impact of simulated colour vision defects on game performance", "Author": "Sirawit Ketchan", "CoAuthors": "Catherine Porter, Ketan Parmar, Christine Dickinson", "Authors": [{"name":"Sirawit Ketchan","aff":[1]},{"name":"Catherine Porter","aff":[1]},{"name":"Ketan Parmar","aff":[1]},{"name":"Christine Dickinson","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["The University of Manchester (UK)"], "Abstract": "Background: Congenital colour vision defect (CCVD) affects approximately 8% of males and 0.5% of females, with red-green defects being the most common type. Digital games are a common leisure activity that requires visual processing under different task demands. This study investigates whether simulated red-green CCVD affects game performance.\\n\\nMethods: Two games with different visual demands were used: Zuma’s Revenge (pattern-based matching task) and Star Wars Battlefront II (dynamic action shooting task). Participants who are experienced with game play and with normal colour vision completed six visual conditions: normal vision, simulated protan, simulated deutan, mild protan simulation, mild deutan simulation, and greyscale. Performance was measured using game scores. Short interviews were conducted after each condition to explore perceived difficulty.\\n\\nResults: Preliminary data from 10 participants showed a significant effect of visual condition on performance in Zuma’s Revenge, F(5,45) = 19.95, p < .001, partial η² = .689. Significantly lower performance in the greyscale condition compared to normal, protan, mild protan, and mild deutan conditions (all p ≤ .007). Significant differences were also observed between normal and deutan (p = .003). In contrast, no significant effect of condition was found for Star Wars Battlefront II, F(5,45) = 0.748, p = .592, partial η² = .077, with similar mean scores across conditions. Interview responses indicated that simulated colour vision defects were perceived as more challenging and less enjoyable, even though the performance was not significantly affected.\\n\\nConclusion: The impact of simulated colour vision defects on game performance appears to depend on task demands. Pattern-based tasks showed greater performance differences, whereas dynamic environments may rely more on motion and other visual cues. These findings support the feasibility of using game-based tasks as an outcome measure in future research involving individuals with congenital colour vision defects.", "SubmissionID": 97},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Colour and Brightness Perception", "Title": "Independent adjustment of luminosity, saturation and hue for probing the color appearance of simultaneous contrast", "Author": "David Alleysson", "CoAuthors": "", "Authors": [{"name":"David Alleysson","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Univ. Grenoble Alpes, Univ. Savoie Mont Blanc, CNRS, LPNC (FR)"], "Abstract": "We present a method that allows the luminosity (k), saturation (s) and hue (ξ) of a stimulus pattern displayed on a computer screen to be varied independently. The display’s color space resides in a metric vector space where the angles between RGB vectors encode their spectral correlations. The parameters ksξ define a hyperboloid (k determines the surface level, s its eccentricity, and ξ the angular position on the hyperboloid) that is contained within a cone. In the first configuration the cone’s surface intersects the RGB vectors. In the second configuration the cone and hyperboloid are oriented so that their constant‑saturation planes are orthogonal to the vector representing the spectral luminous‑efficiency function V(λ). A subsequent hyperbolic rotation aligns the zero‑saturation condition (s = 0) with the gray axis. The apertures of both the cone and the hyperboloid were expanded to obtain independence between luminosity and saturation. We carried out a simultaneous‑contrast experiment in which participants adjusted the color of a circular stimulus on a neutral‑gray background to match the appearance of the same circle surrounded by a color‑inducing annulus. The test set consisted of three isoluminant desaturated colors—red, green and blue—while the inducing set comprised six isoluminant saturated color—red, yellow, green, cyan and magenta. Prior to the main task, a training session required participants to first match the color of a test pattern (chosen from the test set) to that of a different reference circular pattern, both presented on neutral gray. This second configuration produced more accurate adjustments, as indicated by a smaller distance between test and reference during training and a larger adjustment distance during the experimental phase. Analyses showed that adjustments were consistently opposite to the inducing annulus and that an interaction existed between the test and inducing patterns.", "SubmissionID": 101},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Colour and Brightness Perception", "Title": "Quantifying the Munker–White effect using an interactive colour-matching application", "Author": "Jorge Montalva-Colomer", "CoAuthors": "Fernando Brusola-Simón, Ignacio Tortajada-Montañana, Diego Fernández-Casal, Pablo de Haro-Ortega, José Antonio Cuesta-Barrios", "Authors": [{"name":"Jorge Montalva-Colomer","aff":[1]},{"name":"Fernando Brusola-Simón","aff":[1]},{"name":"Ignacio Tortajada-Montañana","aff":[1]},{"name":"Diego Fernández-Casal","aff":[1]},{"name":"Pablo de Haro-Ortega","aff":[2]},{"name":"José Antonio Cuesta-Barrios","aff":[2]}], "Affiliations": ["Centro de Investigación en Tecnologías Gráficas, Universitat Politècnica de València (ES)","Universitat Politècnica de València (ES)"], "Abstract": "Colour perception is strongly shaped by visual context, as illustrated by Munker–White-type colour assimilation illusions: the same physical colour can appear different when viewed against backgrounds with non-uniform geometric and chromatic characteristics. Although the phenomenon is well known, there are few systematic quantitative data on the magnitude and direction of these perceptual deviations, which limits comparisons across studies and the development of predictive models.\\n\\nWe present an interactive application developed in Python with the support of artificial intelligence tools, designed to quantify in a reproducible manner the chromatic variation induced by the Munker–White illusion using colour-matching tasks. In each trial, a fixed-colour target patch is shown with a superimposed pattern of coloured stripes (a Munker–White-type stimulus), alongside a physically identical comparison patch presented without stripes on a neutral background. Conditions are parameterised by three chromaticities: the stimulus colour, the background colour, and the colour of the superimposed stripes. Six base patterns are used and, for each, an inverted condition swaps the background and stripe colours while keeping the stimulus constant, yielding 12 adjustment conditions.\\n\\nEach observer adjusts the colour specifications of the sample patch using controls that manipulate CIE LCh values (lightness, chroma and hue) until an apparent match with the reference patch is achieved. The difference between the physical colour and the adjusted colour provides a direct measure of effect magnitude for each condition, expressible via ΔE metrics in CIELAB space. Preliminary results from one observer show robust perceptual shifts on the order of several tens of ΔE units, with sign reversals when the background–stripe relationship is inverted. This tool enables the generation of standardised quantitative data on the Munker–White effect and provides a foundation for future models capable of predicting colour appearance as a function of visual context.", "SubmissionID": 115},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Colour and Brightness Perception", "Title": "Prototypical colour selections and their associations with emotion concepts across 35 countries", "Author": "Myriam Ouznadji", "CoAuthors": "Domicele Jonauskaite, Déborah Epicoco, Christine Mohr, Alessia Garzilli, C. Alejandro Parraga, International Colour Emotion Association Survey Group", "Authors": [{"name":"Myriam Ouznadji","aff":[1]},{"name":"Domicele Jonauskaite","aff":[1]},{"name":"Déborah Epicoco","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Christine Mohr","aff":[1]},{"name":"Alessia Garzilli","aff":[1]},{"name":"C. Alejandro Parraga","aff":[3]},{"name":"International Colour Emotion Association Survey Group","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Institute of Psychology, University of Lausanne (CH)","School of Social Work, University of Applied Sciences and Arts of Western Switzerland (CH)","Computer Vision Center / Computer Science Department, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona (ES)"], "Abstract": "Colours and emotions are tightly linked, seemingly on a universal level. However, previous cross-cultural studies often relied on presenting colour terms rather than colour patches, limiting insights into how colour relates to emotions as a perceptual stimulus. Here, we investigated colour-emotion associations with a novel two-step approach examining i) what participants chose as prototypical colours for the 11 basic colour categories and turquoise, and ii) how these self-selected colour patches are associated with 20 emotion concepts. \\n\\nWe collected these data within the framework of the International Colour-Emotion Association Survey. At data extraction, we had data from 6995 participants across 35 countries and 38 languages. Participants were asked to first select the best example for each colour category (i.e., the prototypical colour) using a digital colour picker. Then, participants used the Geneva Emotion Wheel to associate each self-selected prototypical colour with one, several, or none of the 20 emotion concepts. \\n\\nWe examined the variability of the median colour choices per country in terms of hue, lightness, and chroma in the CIE LCh colour space. The highest agreement across countries was observed for white on lightness and chroma (SD = 0.00), and for red on hue (circular SD = 0.75). Conversely, the lowest agreement was observed for blue on lightness (SD = 7.03), turquoise on hue (circular SD = 15.9), and green on chroma (SD = 5.87). For colour-emotion associations, their overall patterns showed high similarity across countries, with an average pattern correlation of r = 0.92 (range = 0.73-0.96). Similarly, correspondence analysis indicated consistent spatial relationships between colour categories and emotion concepts structured primarily along the dimensions of valence-lightness (55.6% of explained variance) and arousal-warmth (21.7% of explained variance). These results support the universality and stability of colour-emotion associations across countries when working with both, colour terms and self-selected prototypical colours.", "SubmissionID": 139},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Colour and Brightness Perception", "Title": "Language-specific structure of color space: Linking language and perception in Cantonese and Hakka", "Author": "Songyang Liao", "CoAuthors": "Yuyuan Yang, Claus-Christian Carbon", "Authors": [{"name":"Songyang Liao","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Yuyuan Yang","aff":[1]},{"name":"Claus-Christian Carbon","aff":[2,3]}], "Affiliations": ["Guangzhou College of Business and Technology (CN)","Research Group EPAEG - Ergonomics, Psychological Aesthetics, Gestalt (DE)","University of Bamberg (DE)"], "Abstract": "Color naming varies across languages, yet little is known about how fine-grained differences between closely related languages structure color space and their relationship with perceptual factors like color categorization and appreciation. Cantonese and Hakka are two major Sinitic varieties spoken in southern China. They share a common writing system and cultural background, but differ substantially in phonology and vocabulary. This makes them particularly suitable for isolating linguistic effects from broader cultural differences. We recruited university students from Guangdong province (Hakka speakers: N = 27, mean age = 21 Cantonese speakers: N = 78, mean age = 22). All participants were fluent in Mandarin in addition to their respective languages. We first compiled non-basic color terms for each language (Hakka: 56 Cantonese: 68) based on interviews, dictionaries, and online sources. During the experiment, we presented participants with color terms from their respective languages and asked them to select the corresponding color appearances using a custom color-picker interface (sRGB), which we then transformed into CIELAB space. Cluster analyses revealed systematic differences between the two languages. Both groups exhibited eight cluster centers but with distinct category structures (Cantonese: red, yellow, green, teal, blue, purple, white, black Hakka: red, yellow, green, purple, brown, white, grey, black). Critically, in the blue–teal–green region, Cantonese partitioned the color space into three distinct clusters. In contrast, Hakka showed a single broader cluster spanning this region, with its centroid located between the Cantonese green and teal clusters, indicating a coarser categorical structure. These findings demonstrate that closely related languages can systematically differ in how they segment color space, even within a shared cultural and geographical context. Building on the Sapir–Whorf hypothesis, we will next examine whether these language-specific structures relate to differences in perceptual sensitivity, providing a controlled test of language-perception relationships.", "SubmissionID": 140},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Colour and Brightness Perception", "Title": "Mapping a spatially varying metric in RGB color space using large-scale behavioral data", "Author": "Karl Gegenfurtner", "CoAuthors": "Johanna Gegenfurtner, Doris Braun, Andrea van Doorn, Jan Koenderink", "Authors": [{"name":"Karl Gegenfurtner","aff":[1]},{"name":"Johanna Gegenfurtner","aff":[2]},{"name":"Doris Braun","aff":[1]},{"name":"Andrea van Doorn","aff":[3]},{"name":"Jan Koenderink","aff":[4]}], "Affiliations": ["Giessen University (DE)","Danish Technical University (DK)","Utrecht University (NL)","KU Leuven (BE)"], "Abstract": "Current color difference metrics are based on sparse measurements of subsets of the three-dimensional color space. Recovering the full structure of perceptual sensitivity would require dense behavioral data across many color locations that until now seemed to be out of reach of experimental methods.\\n\\nWe developed Colympics, a gamified psychophysical paradigm designed to obtain such data more efficiently. Observers view displays containing 50 colored items and select those that do not match the majority (reference) color under time pressure, receiving rewards for correct responses and penalties for errors. Target colors differ from the reference along multiple directions and amplitudes. Each unit of measurement therefore yields 50 binary decisions for a single reference color. A full dataset consists of 35 reference colors arranged on a body-centered cubic lattice in RGB space. Across 28 observers, this resulted in more than 100,000 decisions, with individual datasets ranging from approximately 1,600 to 21,000 decisions and stable performance between 67% and 77% correct.\\n\\nAt each sampled location, perceptual distances were characterized by combining responses across directions in color space. This yields a local description in the form of a symmetric positive-definite tensor, corresponding to an ellipsoid of equal perceptual difference. These local estimates were aggregated across observers into a median metric field using the Frobenius norm, while preserving anisotropy and orientation.\\n\\nComparison of individual ellipsoids with the median field shows substantial agreement in shape and orientation after removing overall size (median similarity 0.745 on a scale from 0 to 1). At the same time, observers differ systematically in sensitivity, reflected in approximately twofold variation in ellipsoid size. Agreement is stronger at the observer level than at the stimulus level.\\n\\nThis approach provides a promising route toward a color space metric that can be adapted to stimulus conditions and that captures individual differences in perceptual sensitivity.", "SubmissionID": 276},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Colour and Brightness Perception", "Title": "Peripheral limits of chromatic sensitivity in head-centered coordinates for ideal HMD design", "Author": "Masamitsu Harasawa", "CoAuthors": "Yamato Miyashita, Kazuteru Komine, Yasuhito Sawahata", "Authors": [{"name":"Masamitsu Harasawa","aff":[1]},{"name":"Yamato Miyashita","aff":[2]},{"name":"Kazuteru Komine","aff":[1]},{"name":"Yasuhito Sawahata","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Japan Broadcasting Corporation - NHK (JP)","NHK Foundation (JP)"], "Abstract": "An \\", "SubmissionID": 286},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "09:00–10:30", "Topic": "Colour and Brightness Perception", "Title": "The effect of stimulus duration on various simultaneous contrast effects: an exploratory online study", "Author": "沙永 金子", "CoAuthors": "Kohske Takahashi", "Authors": [{"name":"沙永 金子","aff":[1]},{"name":"Kohske Takahashi","aff":[2]}], "Affiliations": ["Hokkaido University (JP)","Ritsumeikan University (JP)"], "Abstract": "Previous reports suggest that simultaneous contrast effects, such as lightness/brightness contrast (Kaneko & Gilchrist, 2020 Kaneko & Murakami, 2012), color contrast (Kaneko & Murakami, 2012), or the tilt illusion (Wenderoth & Johnstone, 1988), were stronger in shorter duration conditions. The simultaneous contrast effect is observed across many other visual features, but it is unclear whether this temporal dependency is generalized to other variations. \\n\\nIn this study, we explored the effect of duration on five varieties of simultaneous contrast effects: brightness, color, luminance contrast (Chubb illusion), spatial frequency, and tilt. The experiment was conducted online. The target stimulus was presented repeatedly on the left side of the display, and the adjustable probe stimulus (which remained visible throughout) was presented on the right. The participant’s task was to adjust the probe’s brightness/color/contrast/spatial frequency/tilt with a slider to match the appearance of the test. Each presentation of the test and its surround was for 1, 5, or 30 frames, but it was repeated multiple times with a 30-frame blank interval in between until the adjustment was complete. Each condition was repeated twice in a session.\\n\\nData collected from participants who completed all the trials (N=82 after outlier removal) showed a weak to moderate within-condition reliability (Pearson’s r between .19 and .62). We replicated the stronger effects in the shorter-duration condition for brightness contrast and the tilt illusion, but not for color contrast. In addition, the results suggest the enhancement of the effect at shorter durations for spatial frequency and luminance contrast. Our preliminary data suggest that the stronger contrast effect in brief presentations may be common across various visual features. We discuss the pros and cons of an online study of visual psychophysics involving temporally sensitive stimuli.", "SubmissionID": 295},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "15:30–17:00", "Topic": "Clinical, Developmental, and Applied", "Title": "Polarization Perception and Neural Adaptation in Haidinger's Brush Psychophysics: From Normative Data to Albinism", "Author": "Luca Battaglini", "CoAuthors": "Dominga Ortolan, Sara Zambon, Gianluca Ruffato", "Authors": [{"name":"Luca Battaglini","aff":[1]},{"name":"Dominga Ortolan","aff":[1]},{"name":"Sara Zambon","aff":[1]},{"name":"Gianluca Ruffato","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Padova (IT)"], "Abstract": "Haidinger's brushes (HB) are entoptic phenomena arising from dichroic absorption of polarized light by macular carotenoids aligned within Henle's fiber layer (HFL). Despite their potential as a non-invasive psychophysical index of macular integrity, key parameters governing their perception remain poorly characterized.\\n\\nIn a first study, we systematically investigated the role of neural adaptation in HB perception in 37 healthy individuals. Using a custom apparatus combining two blue LED sources (468 nm) with a rotating linear polarizer, we measured rotational speed thresholds (RST) across seven polarization levels. RST decreased linearly with the logarithm of polarization level, establishing a quantitative framework linking neural adaptation dynamics to macular pigment density. The estimated average polarization threshold was 9.7 ± 1.2%, lower than previously reported values, attributable to the broader range of rotational speeds explored. Critically, lower RST at maximum contrast predicted lower polarization thresholds, suggesting RST as a robust individual-level biomarker of macular function.\\n\\nBuilding on this normative framework, we then applied the paradigm to three individuals with oculocutaneous albinism — a condition characterized by reduced macular pigment density and disrupted HFL architecture. Remarkably, all participants perceived polarization-dependent entoptic phenomena at 100% polarization, but reported qualitatively atypical patterns: asymmetric, peripherally localized, with aberrant motion descriptors. No false alarms occurred at 0% polarization. These deviations likely reflect HFL disorganization rather than pigment absence.\\n\\nTogether, these findings establish HB psychophysics as a sensitive, accessible tool for probing macular structural integrity across physiological and pathological conditions.", "SubmissionID": 36},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "15:30–17:00", "Topic": "Clinical, Developmental, and Applied", "Title": "Measuring affective influences on sustained attention in ME/CFS, using a modified Gradual-Onset Continuous Performance Task", "Author": "Anosha	Altaf", "CoAuthors": "Doug JK Barrett", "Authors": [{"name":"Anosha	Altaf","aff":[1]},{"name":"Doug JK Barrett","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Leicester, Leicester (UK)"], "Abstract": "Cognitive difficulties in myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) are often reported during sustained attention and executive control tasks. Neuroimaging studies suggest that these difficulties may reflect impaired recruitment and regulation of task-relevant networks, alongside difficulty in managing effort and internally driven signals, such as fatigue. The gradual-onset continuous performance task (gCPT) measures variability in reaction time (RT) as an index of attentional state. This study used a modified gCPT to examine whether affective stimuli influence attentional performance over time in young healthy adults (n = 23). Displays contained sequences of faces that morphed linearly from one face to the next and participants reported the gender of each face with a speeded button press. Blocks contained neutral-only or mixed neutral and emotional expressions. Trial-to-trial RT fluctuations indexed attentional instability, with extreme RT deviations classified as out-of-zone. Context sensitivity reflected differences between neutral-only and mixed-block trials, allowing examination of how emotional context influenced performance. Preliminary analyses indicated that attentional performance varied as a function of task context, with differences observed in RT, attentional stability, and behavioural response profiles. Extreme RT deviations were more frequent in neutral-only blocks than mixed blocks, and attentional stability changed over time. Behavioural profile analyses further suggested substantial individual differences in how participants responded to emotional context. These findings provide a behavioural baseline for testing whether attentional stability and sensitivity to emotional context are altered in ME/CFS.", "SubmissionID": 616},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "15:30–17:00", "Topic": "Clinical, Developmental, and Applied", "Title": "Visual-Inertial Egocentric Metric Depth Estimation for Tabletop Activities of Daily Living", "Author": "Yaroslava Nalivayko", "CoAuthors": "Isabell Wochner", "Authors": [{"name":"Yaroslava Nalivayko","aff":[1]},{"name":"Isabell Wochner","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Tübingen (DE)"], "Abstract": "Neurodegenerative movement disorders such as Parkinson’s disease or essential tremor impact the patient’s ability to independently perform the tabletop activities of daily living (ADLs) such as drinking and eating. While exoskeleton assistive devices offer a great opportunity to support these patients in tabletop ADLs by suppressing the pathological components of the intended movement, they require motion trajectory estimation, intention prediction, and scene understanding for effective assistance. \\n\\nDepth estimation is especially crucial for determining the relative position of the tabletop objects-of-interest to the patient. Current depth estimation approaches either leverage special hardware (e.g. stereo cameras), which is not available in our mobile sensor setup, or fine-tuning of deep monocular metric methods with a vigorously gathered dataset. Such a dataset would require tens of experimental setups with different tables and users in various environments with an egocentric depth camera.\\n\\nWe address this challenge by exploiting the biomechanical constraints of a person sitting at a table and utilizing inertial measurements in addition to monocular visual information from the Neon eye-tracking eyeglasses. Although the hardware setup of Neon is not sufficient for visual-inertial odometry, it is nonetheless useful for improvement over visual-only metric depth estimation.\\n\\nThe novelty of our method lies in the use of inertial measurements for table normal estimation, which allows us to reliably calculate metric depth of table plane pixels and, by using deep relative depth estimation and depth prior incorporation, of tabletop objects. After building a scene depth map during system initialization, we utilize visual feature tracking to estimate camera pose and scene depth after motion, maintaining a robust understanding of the scene in real-time. Our method achieves the mean distance estimation error of 2.5 cm with the runtime of 0.01 seconds per frame compared to 11 cm and 0.48 seconds of Depth Anything 3.", "SubmissionID": 109},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "15:30–17:00", "Topic": "Clinical, Developmental, and Applied", "Title": "Objective quantification of panretinal visual function using flicker-ERG thresholds", "Author": "Sven Heinrich", "CoAuthors": "Ceren Şimşek, Julia Haldina", "Authors": [{"name":"Sven Heinrich","aff":[1]},{"name":"Ceren Şimşek","aff":[1]},{"name":"Julia Haldina","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["University of Freiburg (DE)"], "Abstract": "Assessment of retinal function in advanced panretinal disease is challenging, as the measurement range of standard clinical measures like visual acuity or conventional electroretinography (ERG) is often exceeded. While the psychophysical \\", "SubmissionID": 146},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "15:30–17:00", "Topic": "Clinical, Developmental, and Applied", "Title": "Robust across trates and staits The stability of the attentional spotlight across autism spectrum disorder, aging, and task manipulations", "Author": "Beleke de Zwart", "CoAuthors": "Sjoerd Stuit, Dirk van Moorselaar, Stefan Van der Stigchel", "Authors": [{"name":"Beleke de Zwart","aff":[1]},{"name":"Sjoerd Stuit","aff":[1]},{"name":"Dirk van Moorselaar","aff":[1]},{"name":"Stefan Van der Stigchel","aff":[1]}], "Affiliations": ["Utrecht University, Helmholtz Institute (NL)"], "Abstract": "Visual attention helps us navigate our surroundings by continuously selecting relevant spatial information for more extensive processing. Here, spatial attentional selection is often conceptualized as an attentional spotlight. Previous data suggests there might be stable differences between individuals in the size of the spotlight directly related to trait differences such as a diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). Here, we aimed to replicate and extent previous work on these trait differences by including individuals with- and without an official diagnosis of ASD and including a sample of older adults. Besides investigating trait differences in the spotlight size, we also addressed state differences by manipulating task characteristics, specifically cue size and target predictiveness. To this end, we conducted a series of experiments with an exogenous cueing paradigm in which we varied the distance from the cue to the target to map the attentional spotlight. \\n\\nResults showed no trait differences in the spatial characteristics of the attentional spotlight between individuals with a diagnosis of ASD and individuals without a diagnosis. Furthermore, while overall performance was lower for the older adults compared to younger adults, our results indicated that the size of the attentional spotlight remains similar between age groups. Regarding the state differences of the spotlight size, we found that the size of the cue does not influence performance and that target predictability only selectively benefits top-down expectations near the cued location, not farther locations. Together, our results indicated no group differences in the spatial characteristics of the attentional spotlight across heterogeneous samples. Furthermore, as measured by our paradigm, the size of the spotlight appears relative stable despite our modulations, suggesting the size of the spotlight is surprisingly stable.", "SubmissionID": 158},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "15:30–17:00", "Topic": "Clinical, Developmental, and Applied", "Title": "Atypical responses to spatial frequency and contrast in the color and motion preferring columns of extrastriate cortex in individuals with amblyopia", "Author": "Antony Morland", "CoAuthors": "Jan Skerswetat, Eric Gaier, Peter Bex, David Hunter, Shahin Nasr", "Authors": [{"name":"Antony Morland","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Jan Skerswetat","aff":[3,4]},{"name":"Eric Gaier","aff":[5,6,7]},{"name":"Peter Bex","aff":[3]},{"name":"David Hunter","aff":[6,7]},{"name":"Shahin Nasr","aff":[2,8]}], "Affiliations": ["Department of Psychology, University of York (UK)","Athinoula A Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts General Hospital (US)","Department of Psychology, Northeastern University (US)","Department of Ophthalmology, University of California Irvine (US)","Department of Ophthalmology, Harvard Medical School (US)","Department of Ophthalmology, Boston's Children Hospital (US)","Picower Institute for Learning and Memory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (US)","Department of Radiology, Harvard Medical School (US)"], "Abstract": "Amblyopia is a monocular visual deficit that persists after optical correction and is often a result of strabismus or anisometropia. The deficit is attributed to atypical visual processing in the brain. We examined how extrastriate visual cortex responded to different contrasts and spatial frequencies in a group of amblyopes (n=16) and controls (n=8). We used high-resolution fMRI to assess how motion- and color-selective columns in visual areas V2-V4 are tuned to spatial frequency and contrast and how this tuning is influenced by amblyopia. We measured responses in motion and color selective columns to five, log-spaced, spatial frequencies (0.1-5.8 c/deg) and five, log-spaced, contrasts (1.25-99%). We tested binocularly and each eye separately in different sessions. For both groups, and all eye conditions, the contrast sensitivity and spatial frequency preference showed differences between motion and color columns in cortical representations of 3-8° eccentricity, but not for 0-3°. The differences at 3-8° manifested in tuning to lower spatial frequencies in motion than color selective columns.  In the representation of 0-3°, color and motion columns were similarly tuned to high spatial frequencies.  Group differences were most pronounced in the representation of 0-3° for monocular conditions – particularly for the amblyopic eye - and were not limited to color selective columns.   However, the group differences interacted significantly with column, spatial frequency, contrast and, predictably, the eye stimulation condition. Atypical visual processing in amblyopia therefore manifests as different spatial frequency responses that depend on the eye of stimulation and the cortical column. The results indicate that amblyopia is not limited to atypical processing in color preferring columns, which depend on preferential inputs from parvocellular units. The magnocellular stream, which inputs preferentially to motion columns, is also affected.", "SubmissionID": 191},{"Day": "Monday", "Time": "15:30–17:00", "Topic": "Clinical, Developmental, and Applied", "Title": "Microstructural reorganization of cerebral white matter measured with 7T-MRI in adult amblyopia", "Author": "Cecilia Barachini", "CoAuthors": "Miriam Acquafredda, Laura Biagi, Michela Tosetti, Maria Novella Maglionico, Michele Figus, Irene Di Marco, Guido Marco Cicchini, Alessandro Sale, Maria Concetta Morrone, Jan Kurzawski, Paola Binda", "Authors": [{"name":"Cecilia Barachini","aff":[1,2]},{"name":"Miriam Acquafredda","aff":[1]},{"name":"Laura Biagi","aff":[3]},{"name":"Michela Tosetti","aff":[3,4]},{"name":"Maria Novella Maglionico","aff":[1]},{"name":"Michele Figus","aff":[1]},{"name":"Irene Di Marco","aff":[5]},{"name":"Guido Marco Cicchini","aff":[5]},{"name":"Alessandro Sale","aff":[5]},{"name":"Maria Concetta Morrone","aff":[1]},{"name":"Jan Kurzawski","aff":[